INTRODUCTION: Despite predicted efficacy, immunotherapy in epithelial ovarian 
cancer (EOC) has limited clinical benefit and the prognosis of patients remains 
poor. There is thus a strong need for better identifying local immune dynamics 
and immune-suppressive pathways limiting T-cell mediated anti-tumor immunity.
METHODS: In this observational study we analyzed by immunohistochemistry, gene 
expression profiling and flow cytometry the antigenic landscape and immune 
composition of 48 EOC specimens, with a focus on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes 
(TILs).
RESULTS: Activated T cells showing features of partial exhaustion with a 
CD137+CD39+PD-1+TIM-3+CD45RA-CD62L-CD95+ surface profile were exclusively 
present in EOC specimens but not in corresponding peripheral blood or ascitic 
fluid, indicating that the tumor microenvironment might sustain this peculiar 
phenotype. Interestingly, while neoplastic cells expressed several 
tumor-associated antigens possibly able to stimulate tumor-specific TILs, 
macrophages provided both co-stimulatory and inhibitory signals and were more 
abundant in TILs-enriched specimens harboring the 
CD137+CD39+PD-1+TIM-3+CD45RA-CD62L-CD95+ signature.
CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that EOC is enriched in 
CD137+CD39+PD-1+TIM-3+CD45RA-CD62L-CD95+ T lymphocytes, a phenotype possibly 
modulated by antigen recognition on neoplastic cells and by a combination of 
inhibitory and co-stimulatory signals largely provided by infiltrating myeloid 
cells. Furthermore, we have identified immunosuppressive pathways potentially 
hampering local immunity which might be targeted by immunotherapeutic 
approaches.