INTRODUCTION: No reports on both blood and fecal bile acids (BAs) in patients 
with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) exist. We simultaneously assessed 
the serum and fecal BA patterns in healthy participants and those with NAFLD.
METHODS: We collected stool samples from 287 participants from 5 hospitals in 
Japan (healthy control [HC]: n = 88; mild fibrosis: n = 104; and advanced 
fibrosis group: n = 95). Blood samples were collected and analyzed for serum BAs 
and 7Î±-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one (C4)-a surrogate marker for BA synthesis 
ability-from 141 patients. Concentrations of BAs, including cholic acid (CA), 
deoxycholic acid (DCA), chenodeoxycholic acid, ursodeoxycholic acid, and 
lithocholic acid (LCA), were measured using liquid chromatography-mass 
spectrometry.
RESULTS: The total fecal BA concentration was significantly higher in the NAFLD 
group with worsening of fibrosis than in the HC group. Most of the fecal BAs 
were secondary and unconjugated. In the fecal BA fraction, CA, DCA, 
chenodeoxycholic acid, ursodeoxycholic acid, and LCA were significantly higher 
in the NAFLD than in the HC group. The total serum BA concentration was higher 
in the NAFLD group with worsening of fibrosis than in the HC group. In the serum 
BA fraction, CA, LCA, and C4 concentrations were significantly higher in the 
NAFLD than in the HC group.
DISCUSSION: Fecal and serum BA and C4 concentrations were high in patients with 
NAFLD with worsening of fibrosis, suggesting involvement of abnormal BA 
metabolism in NAFLD with fibrosis progression. Abnormalities in BA metabolism 
may be a therapeutic target in NAFLD with fibrosis.