PURPOSE: Postural control impairment has been identified as a potential 
extrarespiratory manifestation in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD). The aims of this study were to identify clinical factors that 
characterize patients with reduced postural control, to examine the correlation 
between clinical factors and postural control and to determine predictors of an 
impaired postural control among COPD participants enrolled in a pulmonary 
rehabilitation (PR) program.
METHODS: This study is a secondary analysis of an observational study 
(PARACHUTE). The baseline assessment of the PR program was used for the 
analysis. Postural control impairment was defined using the Brief BESTest score 
(BBT).
RESULTS: Participants (n = 73) were included in the analysis, 43 of them were 
classified in the reduced postural control group. The between-group comparison 
(non-reduced vs reduced postural control) identified differences for partial 
pressure in oxygen (Pa O2 ), Saint George Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) total 
score and subscores (SGRQ-Symptoms, SGRQ-Activities, and SGRQ-Impact), COPD 
assessment test (CAT), and anxiety score of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression 
Scale. The BBT score was significantly correlated with maximal inspiratory 
pressure (MIP), SGRQ, SGRQ-Symptoms, SGRQ-Impact, Falls Efficacy Scale, modified 
Medical Research Council Scale, 6-min walk test, and Pa O2 . Logistic regression 
identified SGRQ-Symptoms, Pa O2 , MIP, and body mass index (BMI) as predictors 
of the presence of reduced postural control.
CONCLUSION: Low quality of life (QoL) and Pa O2 and high anxiety seem to be 
discriminative characteristics of patients with COPD with reduced postural 
control. Furthermore, QoL, Pa O2 , inspiratory muscle strength, and BMI seem to 
be acceptable predictors of the presence of postural control impairment.