Detecting signs of residual neural activity in patients with altered states of 
consciousness is a crucial issue for the customization of neurorehabilitation 
treatments and clinical decision-making. With this large observational 
prospective study, we propose an innovative approach to detect residual signs of 
consciousness via the assessment of the amount of autonomic information coded 
within the brain. The latter was estimated by computing the mutual information 
(MI) between preprocessed EEG and ECG signals, to be then compared across 
consciousness groups, together with the absolute power and an international 
qualitative labeling. One-hundred seventy-four patients (73 females, 42%) were 
included in the study (median age of 65 years [IQR = 20], MCS +: 29, MCS -: 23, 
UWS: 29). Electroencephalography (EEG) information content was found to be 
mostly related to the coding of electrocardiography (ECG) activity, i.e., with 
higher MI (p < 0.05), in Unresponsive Wakefulness Syndrome and Minimally 
Consciousness State minus (MCS -). EEG-ECG MI, besides clearly discriminating 
patients in an MCS - and +, significantly differed between lesioned areas 
(sides) in a subgroup of unilateral hemorrhagic patients. Crucially, such an 
accessible and non-invasive measure of residual consciousness signs was robust 
across electrodes and patient groups. Consequently, exiting from a strictly 
neuro-centric consciousness detection approach may be the key to provide 
complementary insights for the objective assessment of patients' consciousness 
levels and for the patient-specific planning of rehabilitative interventions.