OBJECTIVE: To identify rates of pediatric septoplasty revision in the US.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This retrospective, observational cohort 
study used administrative claims data from the IBM MarketScan Commercial 
Database (which contains inpatient and outpatient data for millions of patients 
and dependents covered by employer-sponsored private health insurance in the US) 
to identify patients undergoing septoplasty between January 1, 2007, and 
December 31, 2016. Patients 18 years or younger were included in the study as 
the pediatric cohort, and patients aged 19 to 65 years were included as the 
adult cohort for comparison. Patients were excluded if the initial surgery 
included rhinoplasty, nasal vestibular stenosis, or costal cartilage grafts or 
if the second surgery did not have nasal vestibular stenosis, septoplasty, 
rhinoplasty, and/or cartilage grafts.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Outcomes included septoplasty revision rate, 
septoplasty-to-rhinoplasty conversion rate, and associated risks for revision 
surgery. Collected data were analyzed between January 1 and July 30, 2022.
RESULTS: A total of 24 322 pediatric patients (mean [SD] age, 15.7 [2.5] years; 
15 121 boys [62.2%]) who underwent an initial septoplasty were identified, of 
whom 704 (2.9%) received a revision. In the adult cohort of 286 218 patients 
(mean [SD] age, 41.4 [12.2] years; 162 893 [56.9%] men), 3081 individuals (1.1%) 
received a revision. Within the pediatric revision group, 66 patients (9.4%) 
received a rhinoplasty vs 162 (5.3%) in the adult revision group. All pediatric 
age groups had higher revision rates than the adult population, with the 9- to 
13-year-old group having the highest rates of revision (118 of 2763 [4.3%]). 
Patients in the West and Northeast, along with those with point of service and 
health maintenance organization health plans, were more likely to receive a 
revision.
CONCLUSION AND RELEVANCE: The findings of this cohort study suggest that 
pediatric patients are more likely to receive a revision surgery than their 
adult counterparts. Furthermore, pediatric patients are more likely than adults 
to receive a rhinoplasty as their revision surgery. These findings provide 
valuable information that may be used to inform clinical decision-making, 
although further research is needed to better identify the causes for pediatric 
septoplasty revision.