Studies of differential gene expression have identified several molecular 
signatures and pathways associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). The role of 
isoform switches and differential transcript usage (DTU) remains, however, 
unexplored. Here, we report the first genome-wide study of DTU in PD. We 
performed RNA sequencing following ribosomal RNA depletion in prefrontal cortex 
samples of 49 individuals from two independent case-control cohorts. DTU was 
assessed using two transcript-count based approaches, implemented in the DRIMSeq 
and DEXSeq tools. Multiple PD-associated DTU events were detected in each 
cohort, of which 23 DTU events in 19 genes replicated across both patient 
cohorts. For several of these, including THEM5, SLC16A1 and BCHE, DTU was 
predicted to have substantial functional consequences, such as altered 
subcellular localization or switching to non-protein coding isoforms. 
Furthermore, genes with PD-associated DTU were enriched in functional pathways 
previously linked to PD, including reactive oxygen species generation and 
protein homeostasis. Importantly, the vast majority of genes exhibiting DTU were 
not differentially expressed at the gene-level and were therefore not identified 
by conventional differential gene expression analysis. Our findings provide the 
first insight into the DTU landscape of PD and identify novel disease-associated 
genes. Moreover, we show that DTU may have important functional consequences in 
the PD brain, since it is predicted to alter the functional composition of the 
proteome. Based on these results, we propose that DTU analysis is an essential 
complement to differential gene expression studies in order to provide a more 
accurate and complete picture of disease-associated transcriptomic alterations.