INTRODUCTION: Constructing quality indicators that reflect the defect of 
colonoscopy operation for quality audit and feedback is very important. 
Previously, we have established a real-time withdrawal speed monitoring system 
to control withdrawal speed below the safe speed. We aimed to explore the 
relationship between the proportion of overspeed frames (POF) of withdrawal and 
the adenoma detection rate (ADR) and to conjointly analyze the influence of POF 
and withdrawal time on ADR to evaluate the feasibility of POF combined with 
withdrawal time as a quality control indicator.
METHODS: The POF was defined as the proportion of frames with instantaneous 
speed ≥44 in the whole colonoscopy video. First, we developed a system for the 
POF of withdrawal based on a perceptual hashing algorithm. Next, we 
retrospectively collected 1,804 colonoscopy videos to explore the relationship 
between POF and ADR. According to withdrawal time and POF cutoff, we conducted a 
complementary analysis on the effects of POF and withdrawal time on ADR.
RESULTS: There was an inverse correlation between the POF and ADR (Pearson 
correlation coefficient -0.836). When withdrawal time was >6 minutes, the ADR of 
the POF ≤10% was significantly higher than that of POF >10% (25.30% vs 16.50%; 
odds ratio 0.463, 95% confidence interval 0.296-0.724, P < 0.01). When the POF 
was ≤10%, the ADR of withdrawal time >6 minutes was higher than that of 
withdrawal time ≤6 minutes (25.30% vs 21.14%; odds ratio 0.877, 95% confidence 
interval 0.667-1.153, P = 0.35).
DISCUSSION: The POF was strongly correlated with ADR. The combined assessment of 
the POF and withdrawal time has profound significance for colonoscopy quality 
control.