Knowledge of etiological mechanisms underlying whiplash-associated disorders is 
incomplete. Localisation and quantification of peripheral musculoskeletal injury 
and inflammation in whiplash-associated disorders would facilitate diagnosis, 
strengthen patients' subjective pain reports, and aid clinical decisions, all of 
which could lead to improved treatment. In this longitudinal observational 
study, we evaluated combined [11C]-D-deprenyl positron emission tomography and 
computed tomography after acute whiplash injury and at 6-month follow-up. 
Sixteen adult patients (mean age 33 years) with whiplash injury grade II were 
recruited at the emergency department. [11C]-D-deprenyl positron emission 
tomography and computed tomography, subjective pain levels, self-rated neck 
disability, and active cervical range of motion were recorded within 7 days 
after injury and again at 6-month follow-up. Imaging results showed possible 
tissue injuries after acute whiplash with an altered [11C]-D-deprenyl uptake in 
the cervical bone structures and facet joints, associated with subjective pain 
locale and levels, as well as self-rated disability. At follow-up, some patients 
had recovered and some showed persistent symptoms and reductions in 
[11C]-D-deprenyl uptake correlated to reductions in pain levels. These findings 
help identify affected peripheral structures in whiplash injury and strengthen 
the idea that positron emission tomography and computed tomography detectable 
organic lesions in peripheral tissue are relevant for the development of 
persistent pain and disability in whiplash injury.