Molecular subtypes and gene expression signatures are widely used in early 
breast cancer but their role in metastatic disease is less explored. Two 
hundred-twenty patients diagnosed with primary breast cancer and subsequent 
relapse in Stockholm, Sweden between 1997 and 2006 were identified and their 
primary tumor was assessed for immunohistochemistry (IHC)- and PAM50-based 
subtypes, risk of recurrence (ROR-S) score, 21-gene and 70-gene signatures using 
research-based microarray expression profiles. Clinical and pathological data 
were retrospectively collected. Post-relapse survival within intrinsic subtypes 
and genomic signatures was investigated by Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression 
methods. ROR weighted for proliferation index (ROR-P) was explored and the 
prognostic contribution provided when combined to a clinical model estimated as 
change in LR- Ï‡(2). IHC classified 27%, 24%, 36% and 13% of the tumors as 
luminal A, luminal B, HER2+ and triple negative, respectively. PAM50 categorized 
22%, 24%, 26%, 22%, 6% of the tumors as luminal A, luminal B, HER2-enriched, 
basal-like and normal-like. Triple negative and basal tumors had a significantly 
shorter median post-relapse survival in comparison with luminal. Overall, 
neither IHC nor PAM50 subtypes, 21- and 70- gene profiles were prognostic in 
multivariable models. Low and medium ROR-S had a longer survival compared with 
the high-risk group (23 vs 10 months; p = 0.04). ROR-P independently correlated 
with post-relapse survival (p = 0.002) and provided the most significant 
prognostic information when added to a clinical model. ROR score from primary 
tumor represents an independent prognostic factor of post-relapse survival 
beyond classical clinical and pathological variables.