OBJECTIVE: To investigate the association between PPI use and risk of asthma in 
children.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This nationwide cohort study collected 
registry data in Sweden from January 1, 2007, to December 31, 2016. Children and 
adolescents 17 years or younger were matched by age and propensity score into 80 
870 pairs of those who initiated PPI use and those who did not. Data were 
analyzed from February 1 to September 1, 2020.
EXPOSURES: Initiation of PPI use.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary analysis examined the risk of incident 
asthma with a median follow-up to 3.0 (interquartile range, 2.1-3.0) years. Cox 
proportional hazards regression was used to estimate hazard ratios (HRs).
RESULTS: Among the 80 870 pairs (63.0% girls; mean [SD] age, 12.9 [4.8] years), 
those who initiated PPI use had a higher incidence rate of asthma (21.8 events 
per 1000 person-years) compared with noninitiators (14.0 events per 1000 
person-years), with an HR of 1.57 (95% CI, 1.49-1.64). The risk of asthma was 
significantly increased across all age groups and was highest for infants and 
toddlers with an HR of 1.83 (95% CI, 1.65-2.03) in the group younger than 6 
months and 1.91 (95% CI, 1.65-2.22) in the group 6 months to younger than 2 
years (P < .001 for interaction). The HRs for individual PPIs were 1.64 (95% CI, 
1.50-1.79) for esomeprazole, 1.49 (95% CI, 1.25-1.78) for lansoprazole, 1.43 
(95% CI, 1.35-1.51) for omeprazole, and 2.33 (95% CI, 1.30-4.18) for 
pantoprazole. In analyses of the timing of asthma onset after PPI initiation, 
the HRs were 1.62 (95% CI, 1.42-1.85) for 0 to 90 days, 1.73 (95% CI, 1.52-1.98) 
for 91 to 180 days, and 1.53 (95% CI, 1.45-1.62) for 181 days to end of 
follow-up. The association was consistent through all sensitivity analyses, 
including high-dimensional propensity score matching (HR, 1.48; 95% CI, 
1.41-1.55).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this cohort study, initiation of PPI use compared 
with nonuse was associated with an increased risk of asthma in children. Proton 
pump inhibitors should be prescribed to children only when clearly indicated, 
weighing the potential benefit against potential harm.