OBJECTIVES: To evaluate positive predictive values (PPVs) of magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) and ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (UFNAB) in 
patients with isolated parotid swelling.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Observational study following the STARD guideline, based 
on a cohort of 212 patients from 18 to 93years of age, with isolated parotid 
swelling (malignant: 16.9%; benign: 83.1%), consecutively operated on between 
2015 and 2020, after work-up including MRI and UFNAB in an otorhinolaryngology 
department of a university hospital. The main endpoint was PPV for diagnosis of 
benign tumor, malignant tumor and the most frequent etiology. Secondary 
endpoints were correlations between PPVs and clinical factors for malignancy, 
and the impact on PPV of various situations: dynamic analysis on MRI; diagnostic 
disagreement between MRI and UFNAB; and UFNAB PPV according to MRI diagnosis.
RESULTS: PPVs for MRI and UFNAB were respectively 45.4% and 88.8% for malignant 
tumor, 89.6% and 46.9% for benign tumor, and 88.1% and 85.2% for pleomorphic 
adenoma (the most frequent etiology). Tumor fixation and history of head and 
neck radiation therapy PPVs were the only one higher than the MRI one for 
malignant tumor. MRI PPV did not differ between groups with or without dynamic 
analysis. PPV for malignant tumor, benign tumor and pleomorphic adenoma on MRI 
and UFNAB was respectively 42.8% and 33.3%, 42.8% and 100%, and 36.3% and 50% in 
case of diagnostic discordance. When MRI suggested malignant tumor, UFNAB PPV 
was 51.8% for malignant tumor, 67.7% for benign tumor, and 37.5% for pleomorphic 
adenoma; when MRI suggested benign tumor, it was 32.2% for malignant tumor, 
91.5% for benign tumor, and 88.5% for pleomorphic adenoma; and, when MRI 
suggested pleomorphic adenoma, it was 23.5% for malignant tumor, 93.9% for 
benign tumor, and 92% for pleomorphic adenoma.
CONCLUSION: Systematic association of UFNAB to MRI did not fundamentally improve 
diagnostic accuracy. UFNAB appeared most valuable in case of history of 
radiation therapy, in case of tumor fixation, and when MRI diagnosis was 
uncertain and/or suggested malignant tumor and/or the apparent diffusion 
coefficient (ADC) was low. The contribution of UFNAB when MRI suggested benign 
tumor or especially pleomorphic adenoma was more limited.