PURPOSE: To assess whether macular fluorescence lifetimes may serve as a 
predictor for long-term outcomes in macula-off rhegmatogenous retinal 
detachment.
METHODS: A single-center observational study was conducted. Patients with 
pseudophakic macula-off rhegmatogenous retinal detachment were included and 
evaluated 1 and 6 months after successful reattachment surgery. Fluorescence 
lifetime imaging ophthalmoscopy lifetimes in the central Early Treatment 
Diabetic Retinopathy Study grid subfield, in two distinct channels (short 
spectral channel and long spectral channel) were analyzed. Best-corrected visual 
acuity optical coherence tomography of the macula and fluorescence lifetimes 
were measured at month 1 and month 6.
RESULTS: Nineteen patients were analyzed. Lifetimes of the previously detached 
retinas were prolonged compared with the healthy fellow eyes. Short lifetimes at 
month 1 were associated with better best-corrected visual acuity improvement 
(short spectral channel: r2 = 0.27, P < 0.05, long spectral channel: r2 = 0.23, 
P < 0.05) and with good final best-corrected visual acuity (short spectral 
channel: r2 = 0.43, P < 0.01, long spectral channel: r2 = 0.25, P < 0.05). 
Lifetimes were prolonged in some cases of outer retinal damage in optical 
coherence tomography scans.
CONCLUSION: Fluorescence lifetime imaging ophthalmoscopy might serve as a 
prediction tool for functional recovery in pseudophakic macula-off 
rhegmatogenous retinal detachment. Retinal fluorescence lifetimes could give 
insight in molecular processes after rhegmatogenous retinal detachment.