BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: To determine the relevance of minor 
neuropsychological deficits (MNPD) in patients with subjective cognitive decline 
(SCD) with regard to CSF levels of Alzheimer disease (AD) biomarkers, cognitive 
decline, and clinical progression to mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
METHODS: This study included patients with clinical SCD and SCD-free, healthy 
control (HC) participants with available baseline CSF and/or longitudinal 
cognitive data from the observational DZNE Longitudinal Cognitive Impairment and 
Dementia study. We defined MNPD as a performance of at least 0.5SD below the 
mean on a demographically adjusted total score derived from the Consortium to 
Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease neuropsychological assessment 
battery. We compared SCD patients with MNPD and those without MNPD with regard 
to CSF amyloid-β (Aβ)42/Aβ40, phosphorylated tau (p-tau181), total tau and 
Aβ42/p-tau181 levels, longitudinal cognitive composite trajectories, and risk of 
clinical progression to incident MCI (follow-up M ± SD: 40.6 ± 23.7 months). In 
addition, we explored group differences between SCD and HC in those without 
MNPD.
RESULTS: In our sample (N = 672, mean age: 70.7 ± 5.9 years, 50% female), SCD 
patients with MNPD (n = 55, 12.5% of SCD group) showed significantly more 
abnormal CSF biomarker levels, increased cognitive decline, and a higher risk of 
progression to incident MCI (HR: 4.07, 95% CI 2.46-6.74) compared with SCD 
patients without MNPD (n = 384). MNPD had a positive predictive value of 57.0% 
(95% CI 38.5-75.4) and a negative predictive value of 86.0% (95% CI 81.9-90.1) 
for the progression of SCD to MCI within 3 years. SCD patients without MNPD 
showed increased cognitive decline and a higher risk of incident MCI compared 
with HC participants without MNPD (n = 215; HR: 4.09, 95% CI 2.07-8.09), while 
AD biomarker levels did not differ significantly between these groups.
DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that MNPD are a risk factor for AD-related 
clinical progression in cognitively normal patients seeking medical counseling 
because of SCD. As such, the assessment of MNPD could be useful for individual 
clinical prediction and for AD risk stratification in clinical trials. However, 
SCD remains a risk factor for future cognitive decline even in the absence of 
MNPD.