PURPOSE: To describe specific clinical, multimodal imaging, and natural history 
features of an unusual variant of acute zonal occult outer retinopathy.
METHODS: Retrospective, observational, longitudinal, multicenter case series. 
Patients exhibiting this unusual clinical condition among cases previously 
diagnosed with acute zonal occult outer retinopathy were included. Multimodal 
imaging, laboratory evaluations, and genetic testing for inherited retinal 
diseases were reviewed.
RESULTS: Twenty eyes from 10 patients (8 females and 2 males) with a mean age of 
54.1 ± 13.3 years (range, 38-71 years) were included. The mean follow-up 
duration was 13.1 ± 5.3 years (range, 8-23 years). Presenting symptoms were 
bilateral in 7 patients (85% of eyes) and included scotomata and photopsia. All 
patients had bilateral lesions at presentation involving the peripapillary and 
far peripheral retina. Baseline optical coherence tomography showed alteration 
of the retinal pigment epithelium and photoreceptor layers corresponding to 
zonal areas of fundus autofluorescence abnormalities. Centrifugal and 
centripetal progression of the peripapillary and far-peripheral lesions, 
respectively, occurred over the follow-up, resulting in areas of complete outer 
retinal and retinal pigment epithelium atrophy.
CONCLUSION: Initial alteration of photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium 
and a stereotypical natural course that includes involvement of the far retinal 
periphery, characterize this unusual condition. It may represent a variant of 
acute zonal occult outer retinopathy or may be a new entity. We suggest to call 
it multizonal outer retinopathy and retinal pigment epitheliopathy.