Polygenic scores are increasingly powerful predictors of educational 
achievement. It is unclear, however, how sets of polygenic scores, which partly 
capture environmental effects, perform jointly with sets of environmental 
measures, which are themselves heritable, in prediction models of educational 
achievement. Here, for the first time, we systematically investigate 
gene-environment correlation (rGE) and interaction (GxE) in the joint analysis 
of multiple genome-wide polygenic scores (GPS) and multiple environmental 
measures as they predict tested educational achievement (EA). We predict EA in a 
representative sample of 7,026 16-year-olds, with 20 GPS for psychiatric, 
cognitive and anthropometric traits, and 13 environments (including life events, 
home environment, and SES) measured earlier in life. Environmental and GPS 
predictors were modelled, separately and jointly, in penalized regression models 
with out-of-sample comparisons of prediction accuracy, considering the 
implications that their interplay had on model performance. Jointly modelling 
multiple GPS and environmental factors significantly improved prediction of EA, 
with cognitive-related GPS adding unique independent information beyond SES, 
home environment and life events. We found evidence for rGE underlying variation 
in EA (rGE = .38; 95% CIs = .30, .45). We estimated that 40% (95% CIs = 31%, 
50%) of the polygenic scores effects on EA were mediated by environmental 
effects, and in turn that 18% (95% CIs = 12%, 25%) of environmental effects were 
accounted for by the polygenic model, indicating genetic confounding. Lastly, we 
did not find evidence that GxE effects significantly contributed to 
multivariable prediction. Our multivariable polygenic and environmental 
prediction model suggests widespread rGE and unsystematic GxE contributions to 
EA in adolescence.