BACKGROUND: Human exposure to intensively farmed livestock is a potential risk 
for transmission of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (ARB) but few studies have 
assessed the relative role of animal vs. environmental sources of ARB in 
low-resource community settings.
OBJECTIVES: We conducted an observational study to compare ARB colonization and 
antibiotic-resistant gene prevalence and abundance in humans with high or low 
exposure to poultry in rural households, commercial poultry farms, and urban 
markets in Bangladesh.
METHODS: Extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing and carbapenem-resistant 
E. coli were quantified in feces from adults with high or low poultry exposure 
(n = 100, respectively), poultry (n = 200), drinking water (n = 120), and 
wastewater (n = 120) from 40 rural households, 40 poultry farms, and 40 urban 
markets.
RESULTS: ESBL-producing E. coli (ESBL-EC) prevalence was 67.5% (95% CI: 61.0, 
74.0) in samples from adults, 68.0% (95% CI: 61.5, 74.5) in samples from 
poultry, and 92.5% (95% CI: 87.7, 97.3) in wastewater samples. 
Carbapenem-resistant E. coli prevalence was high in market wastewaters [30% (95% 
CI: 15.0, 45.0)] but low in humans (1%) and poultry (1%). Human, poultry, and 
wastewater isolates shared common resistance genes: blaCTX-M-1, qnr, and blaTEM. 
Human colonization was not significantly associated with exposure to poultry or 
setting (rural, farm, or market). Ninety-five percent of commercial poultry 
farms routinely administered antibiotics. Susceptibility tests were 
significantly different in household vs. farm and market poultry isolates for 
four of seven antibiotic classes. In human isolates, there were no differences 
except aminoglycoside resistance (16.4% high vs. 4.4% low exposure, p = 0.02). 
Urban market wastewaters and poultry samples had significantly higher 
concentrations of ESBL-EC (p < 0.001) and blaCTX-M-1 (p < 0.001) compared with 
samples from farms and rural households.
DISCUSSION: ESBL-EC colonization was high in humans but not significantly 
associated with exposure to poultry. Bidirectional transmission of antibiotic 
resistance is likely between humans, poultry, and the environment in these 
community settings, underlining the importance of One Health mitigation 
strategies.