Belantamab mafodotin (BM) is an anti-BCMA antibody-drug conjugate (GSK2857916) 
that represents an alternative option in multiple myeloma. We sought to assess 
the efficacy and safety of BM in a real-world setting in patients who benefited 
from an early access program. We conducted an observational, retrospective, 
multicenter study. Eligibility criteria were treatment of relapsed or refractory 
multiple myeloma (RRMM) in monotherapy in adult patients who have received at 
least three lines of therapy previously, including at least one immunomodulatory 
agent (IMiD), a proteasome inhibitor (PI) and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody, 
and whose disease progressed during the last treatment period. The primary 
endpoint of the study is to assess the overall survival (OS). Between November 
2019 and December 2020, 106 patients were treated with BM; 97 were eligible for 
the efficacy evaluation and 104 for safety. The median age was 66 (range, 37-82) 
years. High-risk cytogenetics were identified in 40.9% of patients. Fifty-five 
(56.7%) patients were triple-class refractory and 11 (11.3%) were penta-class 
refractory. The median number of prior lines of treatment was five (range, 
3-12). The median number of BM cycles administered was three (range, 1-22). The 
overall response rate at best response was 38.1% (37/97). The median OS was 9.3 
months (95% confidence interval [CI]: 5.9-15.3), and median progression-free 
survival was 3.5 months (95% CI: 1.9-4.7). The median duration of response was 9 
months (range, 4.65-10.4). Treatment was delayed for 55 (52.9%) patients 
including 36.5% for treatment-related toxicity. Ophthalmic adverse events, 
mainly grade â‰¤2, were the most common toxicity (48%). The occurrence of 
keratopathy was 37.5%. Overall, our data are concordant with the results from 
DREAMM-2 in terms of efficacy and safety on a non-biased population.