INTRODUCTION: The diaphragm function assessed by ultrasound has been 
well-studied in COPD, asthma, and intensive care. However, there are only a few 
studies on diffuse interstitial lung disease, while dyspnea and quality of life 
are major issues in the management that may depend on the diaphragm.
METHODS: We retrospectively included idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) 
patients followed in our center (Marseille, France) between January 2020 and 
February 2023 who underwent diaphragmatic ultrasound. Our objectives were to 
describe the diaphragmatic function of IPFs compared to healthy controls and to 
correlate with clinical, functional, and lung density on CT-scan.
RESULTS: 24 IPF patients and 157 controls were included. The diaphragmatic 
amplitude in IPF was increased at rest (median of 2.20 cm vs 1.88 cm on the 
right, p < 0.007, and 2.30 cm vs 1.91 cm on the left, p < 0.03, in IPF and 
controls respectively) and decreased in deep breathing (median of 4.85 cm vs 
5.45 cm on the right, p < 0.009, and 5.10 cm vs 5.65 cm on the left, p < 0.046, 
in IPF and controls respectively). Diaphragmatic thickness was significantly 
reduced at rest on the right side (median of 1.75 mm vs 2.00 mm, p < 0.02, in 
IPF and controls respectively) and in deep breathing on both sides compared to 
controls (mean of 3.82 mm vs 4.15 mm on the right, p < 0.02, and 3.53 mm vs 
3.94 mm, on the left, p < 0.009, in IPF and controls respectively). 
Diaphragmatic amplitude in deep breathing was moderate to strongly correlated 
with FVC, DLCO, and 6MWT and negatively correlated with the dyspnea and lung 
density on CT scan.
CONCLUSION: The diaphragmatic amplitude and thickness were impaired in IPF 
compared to controls. Diaphragmatic amplitude is the parameter best correlated 
with clinical, functional, and lung density criteria. Further studies are needed 
to determine if diaphragmatic amplitude can be a prognostic factor in IPF.