PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to describe the prevalence, intensity and 
distress of five symptoms in intensive care unit (ICU) patients and to 
investigate possible predictive factors associated with symptom intensity.
METHODS: This is a prospective cohort study of ICU patients. A symptom 
questionnaire (i.e., Patient Symptom Survey) was used to describe the 
prevalence, intensity and distress of pain, thirst, anxiousness, tiredness, and 
shortness of breath over seven ICU days. Associations between symptom intensity 
and possible predictive factors were assessed using the general estimating 
equation (GEE) model.
RESULTS: Out of 603 eligible patients, 353 (Sample 2) were included in the 
present study. On the first ICU day, 195 patients (Sample 1) reported thirst as 
the most prevalent symptom (66%), with the highest mean intensity score (6.13, 
95% confidence interval (CI) [5.7-6.56]). Thirst was the most prevalent (64%) 
and most intense (mean score 6.05, 95%CI [5.81-6.3]) symptom during seven days 
in the ICU. Anxiousness was the most distressful (mean score 5.24, 95%CI 
[4.32-6.15]) symptom on the first day and during seven days (mean score 5.46, 
95%CI [4.95-5.98]). During seven days, analgesic administration and sepsis 
diagnosis were associated with increased thirst intensity. Older age and being 
mechanically ventilated were associated with decreased pain intensity, and 
analgesic administration was associated with increased pain intensity. Family 
visits and female gender were associated with increased intensity of anxiousness 
and shortness of breath, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-reporting ICU patients experienced a high and consistent 
symptom burden across seven days. Certain variables were associated with the 
degree of symptom intensity, but further research is required to better 
understand these associations.