OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and safety of sirolimus for children with 
slow-flow vascular malformations to better delineate the indications for 
treatment.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: This multicenter, open-label, 
observational-phase randomized clinical trial included 59 children aged 6 to 18 
years with a slow-flow vascular malformation who were recruited between 
September 28, 2015, and March 22, 2018, in 11 French tertiary hospital centers. 
Statistical analysis was performed on an intent-to-treat basis from December 4, 
2019, to November 10, 2020.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients underwent an observational period, then switched to an 
interventional period when they received oral sirolimus (target serum levels, 
4-12 ng/mL). The switch time was randomized from month 4 to month 8, and the 
whole study period lasted 12 months for each patient.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was change in the volume of 
vascular malformations detected on magnetic resonance imaging scan (with 
centralized interpretation) per unit of time (ie, between the interventional 
period and the observational period). Secondary outcomes included subjective end 
points: pain, bleeding, oozing, quality of life, and safety.
RESULTS: Among the participants (35 girls [59.3%]; mean [SD] age, 11.6 [3.8] 
years), 22 (37.3%) had a pure venous malformation, 18 (30.5%) had a cystic 
lymphatic malformation, and 19 (32.2%) had a combined malformation, including 
syndromic forms. Variations in the volume of vascular malformations detected on 
magnetic resonance imaging scans associated with the duration period were not 
overall significantly different between the interventional period and the 
observational period (all vascular malformations: mean [SD] difference, -0.001 
[0.007]; venous malformations: mean [SD] difference, 0.001 [0.004]; combined 
malformations: mean [SD] difference, 0.001 [0.009]). However, a significant 
decrease in volume was observed for children with pure lymphatic malformations 
(mean [SD] difference, -0.005 [0.005]). Overall, sirolimus had positive effects 
on pain, especially for combined malformations, and on bleeding, oozing, 
self-assessed efficacy, and quality of life. During sirolimus treatment, 56 
patients experienced 231 adverse events (5 serious adverse events, none 
life-threatening). The most frequent adverse event was an oral ulcer (29 
patients [49.2%]).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This observational-phase randomized clinical trial 
allows for clarifying the goals of patients and families when starting sirolimus 
therapy for children older than 6 years. Pure lymphatic malformations seem to be 
the best indication for sirolimus therapy because evidence of decreasing 
lymphatic malformation volume per unit of time, oozing, and bleeding and 
increasing quality of life was found. In combined malformations, sirolimus 
significantly reduced pain, oozing, and bleeding. Benefits seemed lower for pure 
venous malformations than for the 2 other subgroups, also based on symptoms.