OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the association between SBP and dementia risk 
is U-shaped and whether age and comorbidity play a role in this association.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cohort study used an individual 
participant data approach to analyze 7 prospective, observational, 
population-based cohort studies that were designed to evaluate incident dementia 
in older adults. These studies started between 1987 and 2006 in Europe and the 
US. Participants had no dementia diagnosis and had SBP and/or diastolic blood 
pressure (BP) data at baseline and incident dementia status during follow-up. 
Data analysis was conducted from November 7, 2019, to October 3, 2021.
EXPOSURES: Baseline systolic BP.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: All-cause dementia (defined using Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders [Third Edition Revised] or Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders [Fourth Edition] and established at 
follow-up measurements or in clinical practice), mortality, and combined 
dementia and mortality were the outcomes. Covariates included baseline 
antihypertensive medication use, sex, educational level, body mass index, 
smoking status, diabetes, stroke history, myocardial infarction history, and 
polypharmacy. Cox proportional hazards regression models were used, and 
nonlinear associations were explored using natural splines.
RESULTS: The study analyzed 7 cohort studies with a total of 17 286 
participants, among whom 10 393 were women (60.1%) and the mean (SD) baseline 
age was 74.5 (7.3) years. Overall, dementia risk was lower for individuals with 
higher SBP, with the lowest risk associated with an SBP of approximately 185 mm 
Hg (95% CI, 161-230 mm Hg; P = .001). Stratified by overlapping 10-year baseline 
age groups, the lowest dementia risk was observed at somewhat lower systolic BP 
levels in those older than 75 years (158 [95% CI, 152-178] mm Hg to 170 [95% CI, 
160-260] mm Hg). For mortality, there was a clear U-shaped association, with the 
lowest risk at 160 mm Hg (95% CI, 154-181 mm Hg; P < .001). This U-shape 
occurred across all age groups, with the lowest dementia risk associated with an 
SBP of 134 mm Hg (95% CI, 102-149 mm Hg; P = .03) in those aged 60 to 70 years 
and increasing to between 155 mm Hg (95% CI, 150-166 mm Hg; P < .001) and 166 mm 
Hg (95% CI, 154-260 mm Hg; P = .02) for age groups between 70 and 95 years. 
Combined dementia and mortality risk curves closely resembled those for 
mortality. Associations of diastolic BP with dementia risk were generally 
similar but were less distinct.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This cohort study found that dementia risk was lower 
for older individuals with higher SBP levels and that more distinctly U-shaped 
associations appeared for those older than 75 years, but these associations 
cannot be explained by SBP-associated changes in mortality risk. The findings 
may warrant future trials on tailored BP management in older age groups that 
take life expectancy and health context into consideration.