OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate whether sex differences 
exist in disease presentations, disease severity and (case-mix adjusted) 
outcomes in the Emergency Department (ED).
METHODS: Observational multicenter cohort study using the Netherlands Emergency 
Department Evaluation Database (NEED), including patients ≥ 18 years of three 
Dutch EDs. Multivariable logistic regression was used to study the associations 
between sex and outcome measures in-hospital mortality and Intensive Care 
Unit/Medium Care Unit (ICU/MCU) admission in ED patients and in subgroups triage 
categories and presenting complaints.
RESULTS: Of 148,825 patients, 72,554 (48.8%) were females. Patient 
characteristics at ED presentation and diagnoses (such as pneumonia, cerebral 
infarction, and fractures) were comparable between sexes at ED presentation. 
In-hospital mortality was 2.2% in males and 1.7% in females. ICU/MCU admission 
was 4.7% in males and 3.1% in females. Males had higher unadjusted (OR 
1.34(1.25-1.45)) and adjusted (AOR 1.34(1.24-1.46)) risks for mortality, and 
unadjusted (OR 1.54(1.46-1.63)) and adjusted (AOR 1.46(1.37-1.56)) risks for 
ICU/MCU admission. Males had higher adjusted mortality and ICU/MCU admission for 
all triage categories, and with almost all presenting complaints except for 
headache.
CONCLUSIONS: Although patient characteristics at ED presentation for both sexes 
are comparable, males are at higher unadjusted and adjusted risk for adverse 
outcomes. Males have higher risks in all triage categories and with almost all 
presenting complaints. Future studies should investigate reasons for higher risk 
in male ED patients.