PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility, safety and 
efficacy of percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of lung metastases from 
colorectal carcinoma using C-arm cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) guidance.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This single-center prospective observational study was 
performed from August 2013 to August 2016, and included consecutive patients 
referred for radiofrequency ablation of lung metastases from colorectal cancer. 
Radiofrequency ablation procedures were performed under C-arm CBCT guidance. 
Feasibility was assessed by probe accuracy placement, time to accurate placement 
and number of C-arm CBCT acquisitions to reach the target lesion. Safety was 
assessed by the report of adverse event graded using the common terminology 
criteria for adverse events (CTCAE-V4.0). Efficacy was assessed by metastases 
response rate using RECIST 1.1 and 18FDG-PET-CT tumor uptake at 6months.
RESULTS: Fifty-four consecutive patients (32 men, 22 women) with a mean age of 
63±8 (SD) years (range: 51-81years) with a total of 56 lung metastasis from 
colorectal metastases were treated in a single session. The mean tumor diameter 
was 25.6±4.5 (SD)mm (range: 17-31mm). Median time to insert the needle into the 
target lesion was 10min (range: 5-25min). Median number of needles repositioning 
and C-arm CBCT acquisition per patient was 1 (range: 0-3) and 4 (range: 3-6) 
respectively. The accuracy for radiofrequency ablation probe placement was 2±0.2 
(SD)mm (range: 0-9mm). Pneumothorax requiring chest tube placement occurred in 
one patient (CTCAE-V4.0 grade 3). At 6months, all patients were alive with tumor 
response rate of -27% and had no significant activity on the 18FDG-PET CT 
follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of lung metastases from 
colorectal cancer under C-arm CBCT guidance is feasible and safe, with immediate 
and short-term results similar to those obtained using conventional CT guidance.