AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: To assess the associations between glucose metabolism status 
and a range of continuous measures of glycaemia with corneal nerve fibre 
measures, as assessed using corneal confocal microscopy.
METHODS: We used population-based observational cross-sectional data from the 
Maastricht Study of N=3471 participants (mean age 59.4 years, 48.4% men, 14.7% 
with prediabetes, 21.0% with type 2 diabetes) to study the associations, after 
adjustment for demographic, cardiovascular risk and lifestyle factors, between 
glucose metabolism status (prediabetes and type 2 diabetes vs normal glucose 
metabolism) plus measures of glycaemia (fasting plasma glucose, 2 h post-load 
glucose, HbA1c, skin autofluorescence [SAF] and duration of diabetes) and 
composite Z-scores of corneal nerve fibre measures or individual corneal nerve 
fibre measures (corneal nerve bifurcation density, corneal nerve density, 
corneal nerve length and fractal dimension). We used linear regression analysis, 
and, for glucose metabolism status, performed a linear trend analysis.
RESULTS: After full adjustment, a more adverse glucose metabolism status was 
associated with a lower composite Z-score for corneal nerve fibre measures (β 
coefficients [95% CI], prediabetes vs normal glucose metabolism -0.08 [-0.17, 
0.03], type 2 diabetes vs normal glucose metabolism -0.14 [-0.25, -0.04]; linear 
trend analysis showed a p value of 0.001), and higher levels of measures of 
glycaemia (fasting plasma glucose, 2 h post-load glucose, HbA1c, SAF and 
duration of diabetes) were all significantly associated with a lower composite 
Z-score for corneal nerve fibre measures (per SD: -0.09 [-0.13, -0.05], -0.07 
[-0.11, -0.03], -0.08 [-0.11, -0.04], -0.05 [-0.08, -0.01], -0.09 [-0.17, 
-0.001], respectively). In general, directionally similar associations were 
observed for individual corneal nerve fibre measures.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: To our knowledge, this is the first population-based 
study to show that a more adverse glucose metabolism status and higher levels of 
glycaemic measures were all linearly associated with corneal neurodegeneration 
after adjustment for an extensive set of potential confounders. Our results 
indicate that glycaemia-associated corneal neurodegeneration is a continuous 
process that starts before the onset of type 2 diabetes. Further research is 
needed to investigate whether early reduction of hyperglycaemia can prevent 
corneal neurodegeneration.