OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether short-term exposure to environmental air 
pollution is associated with psoriasis flares.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This observational study with both 
case-crossover and cross-sectional design retrospectively analyzed longitudinal 
data from September 2013 to January 2020 from patients with chronic plaque 
psoriasis consecutively attending the outpatient dermatologic clinic of the 
University Hospital of Verona. For the case-crossover analysis, patients were 
included who had at least 1 disease flare, defined as Psoriasis Area and 
Severity Index (PASI) increase of 5 or greater between 2 consecutive assessments 
in a time frame of 3 to 4 months. For the cross-sectional analysis, patients 
were included who received any systemic treatment for 6 or more months, with 
grade 2 or higher consecutive PASI assessment.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: We compared the mean and cumulative (area under the 
curve) concentrations of several air pollutants (carbon monoxide, nitrogen 
dioxide, other nitrogen oxides, benzene, coarse particulate matter [PM; 2.5-10.0 
μm in diameter, PM10] and fine PM [<2.5 μm in diameter, PM2.5]) in the 60 days 
preceding the psoriasis flare and the control visits.
RESULTS: A total of 957 patients with plaque psoriasis with 4398 follow-up 
visits were included in the study. Patients had a mean (SD) age of 61 (15) years 
and 602 (62.9%) were men. More than 15 000 measurements of air pollutant 
concentration from the official, open-source bulletin of the Italian Institute 
for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) were retrieved. Among the 
overall cohort, 369 (38.6%) patients with psoriasis flare were included in the 
case-crossover study. We found that concentrations of all pollutants were 
significantly higher in the 60 days before psoriasis flare (median PASI at the 
flare 12; IQR, 9-18) compared with the control visit (median PASI 1; IQR, 1-3, 
P < .001). In the cross-sectional analysis, exposure to mean PM10 over 20 μg/m3 
and mean PM2.5 over 15 μg/m3 in the 60 days before assessment were associated 
with a higher risk of PASI 5 or greater point worsening (adjusted odds ratio 
[aOR], 1.55; 95% CI, 1.21-1.99; and aOR, 1.25; 95% CI, 1.0-1.57, respectively). 
Sensitivity analyses that stratified for trimester of evaluation, with various 
lag of exposure and adjusting for type of treatment, yielded similar results.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The findings of this case-crossover and 
cross-sectional study suggest that air pollution may be a trigger factor for 
psoriasis flare.