Selection pressure due to exposure to infectious pathogens endemic to Africa may 
explain distinct genetic variations in immune response genes. However, the 
impact of those genetic variations on human immunity remains understudied, 
especially within the context of modern lifestyles and living environments, 
which are drastically different from early humans in sub Saharan Africa. There 
are few data on population differences in constitutional immune environment, 
where genetic ancestry and environment are likely two primary sources of 
variation. In a study integrating genetic, molecular and epidemiologic data, we 
examined population differences in plasma levels of 14 cytokines involved in 
innate and adaptive immunity, including those implicated in chronic 
inflammation, and possible contributing factors to such differences, in 914 AA 
and 855 EA women. We observed significant differences in 7 cytokines, including 
higher plasma levels of CCL2, CCL11, IL4 and IL10 in EAs and higher levels of 
IL1RA and IFNÎ±2 in AAs. Analyses of a wide range of demographic and lifestyle 
factors showed significant impact, with age, education level, obesity, smoking, 
and alcohol intake, accounting for some, but not all, observed population 
differences for the cytokines examined. Levels of two pro-inflammatory 
chemokines, CCL2 and CCL11, were strongly associated with percent of African 
ancestry among AAs. Through admixture mapping, the signal was pinpointed to 
local ancestry at 1q23, with fine-mapping analysis refined to the Duffy-null 
allele of rs2814778. In AA women, this variant was a major determinant of 
systemic levels of CCL2 (p = 1.1e-58) and CCL11 (p = 2.2e-110), accounting for 
19% and 40% of the phenotypic variance, respectively. Our data reveal strong 
ancestral footprints in inflammatory chemokine regulation. The Duffy-null allele 
may indicate a loss of the buffering function for chemokine levels. The 
substantial immune differences by ancestry may have broad implications to health 
disparities between AA and EA populations.