BACKGROUND: The Targeted Learning roadmap provides a systematic guide for 
generating and evaluating real-world evidence (RWE). From a regulatory 
perspective, RWE arises from diverse sources such as randomized controlled 
trials that make use of real-world data, observational studies, and other study 
designs. This paper illustrates a principled approach to assessing the validity 
and interpretability of RWE.
METHODS: We applied the roadmap to a published observational study of the 
dose-response association between ritodrine hydrochloride and pulmonary edema 
among women pregnant with twins in Japan. The goal was to identify barriers to 
causal effect estimation beyond unmeasured confounding reported by the study's 
authors, and to explore potential options for overcoming the barriers that 
robustify results.
RESULTS: Following the roadmap raised issues that led us to formulate 
alternative causal questions that produced more reliable, interpretable RWE. The 
process revealed a lack of information in the available data to identify a 
causal dose-response curve. However, under explicit assumptions the effect of 
treatment with any amount of ritodrine versus none, albeit a less ambitious 
parameter, can be estimated from data.
CONCLUSIONS: Before RWE can be used in support of clinical and regulatory 
decision-making, its quality and reliability must be systematically evaluated. 
The TL roadmap prescribes how to carry out a thorough, transparent, and 
realistic assessment of RWE. We recommend this approach be a routine part of any 
decision-making process.