The impact of multidrug-resistant (MDR) colonization and MDR infection in 
critically ill cirrhosis patients remains unclear. We assessed the association 
of MDR colonization and MDR infection with these patients' survival. 
Observational cohort study including adult cirrhosis patients admitted to 5 
intensive care units at Northwestern Memorial Hospital (Chicago, Illinois, USA) 
on January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2017. Patients admitted for elective liver 
transplant or with previous liver transplant were excluded. Patients were 
screened for MDR colonization on intensive care unit admission. Infection 
diagnoses during the intensive care unit stay were considered. The primary 
endpoint was hospital transplant-free survival. Among 600 patients included, 362 
(60%) were men and median (interquartile range) age was 58.0 (49.0, 64.0) years. 
Median (interquartile range) Model for End-stage Liver Disease, Sequential Organ 
Failure Assessment, and Chronic Liver Failure-Acute-on-Chronic Liver Failure 
scores on intensive care unit day 1 were 28.0 (20.0, 36.0), 9.0 (6.0, 13.0), and 
55.0 (48.0, 64.0), respectively. Overall, 76 (13%) patients were transplanted 
and 443 (74%) survived the hospital stay. Infections were diagnosed in 347 (58%) 
patients: pneumonia in 197 (33%), urinary tract infection in 119 (20%), 
peritonitis in 93 (16%), bloodstream infection in 99 (16%), Clostridium 
difficile colitis in 9 (2%), and catheter tip infection in 7 (1%). MDR 
colonization and MDR infection were identified in 200 (33%) and 69 (12%) 
patients, respectively. MDR colonization was associated with MDR infection (p < 
0.001). MDR colonization or MDR infection was associated with higher number and 
duration of antibiotics (p < 0.001). Following adjustment for covariables (age, 
sex, etiology, portal hypertension, and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment 
score), MDR colonization [OR (95% CI), 0.64 (0.43, 0.95)] or MDR infection 
[adjusted OR (95% CI), 0.22 (0.12, 0.40)] were independently associated with 
lower transplant-free survival. Among critically ill cirrhosis patients, MDR 
colonization or MDR infection portended a worse prognosis.