PURPOSE: Lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) are the most frequent 
infectious complication in patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). 
We aim to report the clinical characteristics of ICU-admitted patients due to 
nosocomial LRTI and to describe their microbiology and clinical outcomes.
METHODS: A prospective observational study was conducted in 13 countries over 
two continents from 9th May 2016 until 16th August 2019. Characteristics and 
outcomes of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), ventilator-associated 
tracheobronchitis (VAT), ICU hospital-acquired pneumonia (ICU-HAP), HAP that 
required invasive ventilation (VHAP), and HAP in patients transferred to the ICU 
without invasive mechanical ventilation were collected. The clinical diagnosis 
and treatments were per clinical practice and not per protocol. Descriptive 
statistics were used to compare the study groups.
RESULTS: 1060 patients with LRTI (72.5% male sex, median age 64 [50-74] years) 
were included in the study; 160 (15.1%) developed VAT, 556 (52.5%) VAP, 98 
(9.2%) ICU-HAP, 152 (14.3%) HAP, and 94 (8.9%) VHAP. Patients with VHAP had 
higher serum procalcitonin (PCT) and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) 
scores. Patients with VAP or VHAP developed acute kidney injury, acute 
respiratory distress syndrome, multiple organ failure, or septic shock more 
often. One thousand eight patients had microbiological samples, and 711 (70.5%) 
had etiological microbiology identified. The most common microorganisms were 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (18.4%) and Klebsiella spp (14.4%). In 382 patients 
(36%), the causative pathogen shows some antimicrobial resistance pattern. ICU, 
hospital and 28-day mortality were 30.8%, 37.5% and 27.5%, respectively. 
Patients with VHAP had the highest ICU, in-hospital and 28-day mortality rates.
CONCLUSION: VHAP patients presented the highest mortality among those admitted 
to the ICU. Multidrug-resistant pathogens frequently cause nosocomial LRTI in 
this multinational cohort study.