BACKGROUND: Subject-level real-world data (RWD) collected during daily 
healthcare practices are increasingly used in medical research to assess 
questions that cannot be addressed in the context of a randomized controlled 
trial (RCT). A novel application of RWD arises from the need to create external 
control arms (ECAs) for single-arm RCTs. In the analysis of ECAs against RCT 
data, there is an evident need to manage and analyze RCT data and RWD in the 
same technical environment. In the Nordic countries, legal requirements may 
require that the original subject-level data be anonymized, i.e., modified so 
that the risk to identify any individual is minimal. The aim of this study was 
to conduct initial exploration on how well pseudonymized and anonymized RWD 
perform in the creation of an ECA for an RCT.
METHODS: This was a hybrid observational cohort study using clinical data from 
the control arm of the completed randomized phase II clinical trial (PACIFIC-AF) 
and RWD cohort from Finnish healthcare data sources. The initial pseudonymized 
RWD were anonymized within the (k, Îµ)-anonymity framework (a model for 
protecting individuals against identification). Propensity score matching and 
weighting methods were applied to the anonymized and pseudonymized RWD, to 
balance potential confounders against the RCT data. Descriptive statistics for 
the potential confounders and overall survival analyses were conducted prior to 
and after matching and weighting, using both the pseudonymized and anonymized 
RWD sets.
RESULTS: Anonymization affected the baseline characteristics of potential 
confounders only marginally. The greatest difference was in the prevalence of 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (4.6% vs. 5.4% in the pseudonymized 
compared to the anonymized data, respectively). Moreover, the overall survival 
changed in anonymization by only 8% (95% CI 4-22%). Both the pseudonymized and 
anonymized RWD were able to produce matched ECAs for the RCT data. Anonymization 
after matching impacted overall survival analysis by 22% (95% CI -21-87%).
CONCLUSIONS: Anonymization may be a viable technique for cases where flexible 
data transfer and sharing are required. As anonymization necessarily affects 
some aspects of the original data, further research and careful consideration of 
anonymization strategies are needed.