BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Elevated serum neurofilament light chain (NfL) is 
used to identify carriers of genetic frontotemporal dementia (FTD) pathogenic 
variants approaching prodromal conversion. Yet, the magnitude and timeline of 
NfL increase are still unclear. Here, we investigated the predictive and early 
diagnostic value of longitudinal serum NfL for the prodromal conversion in 
genetic FTD.
METHODS: In a longitudinal observational cohort study of genetic FTD pathogenic 
variant carriers, we examined the diagnostic accuracy and conversion risk 
associated with cross-sectional and longitudinal NfL. Time periods relative to 
prodromal conversion (>3, 3-1.5, 1.5-0 years before; 0-1.5 years after) were 
compared with values of participants who did not convert. Next, we modeled 
longitudinal NfL and MRI volume trajectories to determine their timeline.
RESULTS: We included 21 participants who converted (5 chromosome 9 open-reading 
frame 72 [C9orf72], 10 progranulin [GRN], 5 microtubule-associated protein tau 
[MAPT], and 1 TAR DNA-binding protein [TARDBP]) and 61 who did not (20 C9orf72, 
30 GRN, and 11 MAPT). Participants who converted had higher NfL levels at all 
examined periods before prodromal conversion (median values 14.0-18.2 pg/mL; 
betas = 0.4-0.7, standard error [SE] = 0.1, p < 0.046) than those who did not 
(6.5 pg/mL) and showed further increase 0-1.5 years after conversion (28.4 
pg/mL; beta = 1.0, SE = 0.1, p < 0.001). Annualized longitudinal NfL change was 
only significantly higher in participants who converted (vs. participants who 
did not) 0-1.5 years after conversion (beta = 1.2, SE = 0.3, p = 0.001). 
Diagnostic accuracy of cross-sectional NfL for prodromal conversion (vs. 
nonconversion) was good-to-excellent at time periods before conversion (area 
under the curve range: 0.72-0.92), improved 0-1.5 years after conversion 
(0.94-0.97), and outperformed annualized longitudinal change (0.76-0.84). NfL 
increase in participants who converted occurred earlier than frontotemporal MRI 
volume change and differed by genetic group and clinical phenotypes. Higher NfL 
corresponded to increased conversion risk (hazard ratio: cross-sectional = 6.7 
[95% CI 3.3-13.7]; longitudinal = 13.0 [95% CI 4.0-42.8]; p < 0.001), but 
conversion-free follow-up time varied greatly across participants.
DISCUSSION: NfL increase discriminates individuals who convert to prodromal FTD 
from those who do not, preceding significant frontotemporal MRI volume loss. 
However, NfL alone is limited in predicting the exact timing of prodromal 
conversion. NfL levels also vary depending on underlying variant-carrying genes 
and clinical phenotypes. These findings help to guide participant recruitment 
for clinical trials targeting prodromal genetic FTD.