Significant human gut microbiome changes during adolescence suggest that 
microbial community evolution occurs throughout important developmental periods 
including the transition to college, a typical life phase of weight gain. In 
this observational longitudinal study of 139 college freshmen living in 
on-campus dormitories, we tracked changes in the gut microbiome via 16S amplicon 
sequencing and body weight across a single academic year. Participants were 
grouped by weight change categories of gain (WG), loss (WL), and maintenance 
(WM). Upon assessment of the community structure, unweighted and weighted 
UniFrac metrics revealed significant shifts with substantial variation explained 
by individual effects within weight change categories. Genera that positively 
contributed to these associations with weight change included Bacteroides, 
Blautia, and Bifidobacterium in WG participants and Prevotella and 
Faecalibacterium in WL and WM participants. Moreover, the Prevotella/Bacteroides 
ratio was significantly different by weight change category, with WL 
participants displaying an increased ratio. Importantly, these genera did not 
display co-dominance nor ease of transition between Prevotella- and 
Bacteroides-dominated states. We further assessed the overall taxonomic 
variation, noting the increased stability of the WL compared to the WG 
microbiome. Finally, we found 30 latent community structures within the 
microbiome with significant associations with waist circumference, sleep, and 
dietary factors, with alcohol consumption chief among them. Our findings 
highlight the high level of individual variation and the importance of initial 
gut microbiome community structure in college students during a period of major 
lifestyle changes. Further work is needed to confirm these findings and explore 
mechanistic relationships between gut microbes and weight change in free-living 
individuals.