OBJECTIVE: To evaluate reasons for WW and to document the natural course of BCC 
in patients who chose WW and reasons to initiate later treatment.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: An observational cohort study was performed 
at a single institution between January 2018 and November 2020 studying patients 
with 1 or more untreated BCC for 3 months or longer.
EXPOSURES: Watchful waiting was chosen by patients and proxies regardless of 
this study.
MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURES: The reasons for WW and treatment were extracted from 
patient files and were categorized for analyses. Linear mixed models were used 
to estimate tumor growth and identify covariates associated with tumor growth.
RESULTS: Watchful waiting was chosen for 280 BCCs in 89 patients (47 men [53%] 
and 42 women [47%]), with a median (interquartile range [IQR]) follow-up of 9 
(4-15) months. The median (IQR) age of the included patients was 83 (73-88) 
years. Patient-related factors or preferences (ie, prioritizations of 
comorbidities, severe frailty, or limited life expectancy) were reasons to 
initiate WW in 74 (83%) patients, followed by tumor-related factors (n = 49; 
55%). Treatment-related and circumstantial reasons were important for 35% and 
46% of the patients, respectively. The minority of tumors increased in size 
(47%). Tumor growth was associated with BCC subtype (odds ratio, 3.35; 95% CI, 
1.47-7.96; P = .005), but not with initial tumor size and location. The 
estimated tumor diameter increase was 4.46 mm (80% prediction interval, 1.42 to 
7.46 mm) in 1 year for BCCs containing at least an infiltrative/micronodular 
component and 1.06 mm (80% prediction interval, -1.79 to 4.28 mm) for the 
remaining BCCs (only nodular/superficial component/clinical diagnosis). Most 
common reasons to initiate treatment were tumor burden or potential tumor 
burden, resolved reason(s) for WW, and reevaluation of patient-related factors.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this cohort study of patients with BCC, WW was an 
appropriate approach in several patients, especially those with asymptomatic 
nodular or superficial BCCs and a limited life expectancy. Patients should be 
followed up regularly to determine whether a WW approach is still suitable and 
whether patients still prefer WW and to reconsider consequences of treatment and 
refraining from treatment.