OBJECTIVES: The clinical significance of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia in 
patients with COPD is poorly understood. We aimed to determine whether a lower 
respiratory tract culture positive for S. maltophilia in COPD patients was 
independently associated with increased risk of death and hospitalisation for 
exacerbation of COPD.
METHODS: An observational cohort study following outpatients with COPD in 
Eastern Denmark between 2010 and 2018, with a follow-up period of five years. 
Presence of S. maltophilia was treated as a time-varying exposure, where 
patients were considered exposed at the time of the first isolation of S. 
maltophilia from the lower respiratory tract. The hazard ratio (HR) of death and 
hospitalisation for acute exacerbations of COPD was assessed using a Cox 
proportional hazards regression.
RESULTS: Of the total 22,689 patients 459 (2.0%) had a lower respiratory sample 
positive for S. maltophilia. A total of 7,649 deaths (S. maltophilia positive: 
243 (52.9%) and S. maltophilia negative: 7,406 (34.4%)) and 24,912 
hospitalisations for exacerbation of COPD (S. maltophilia positive: 1,100 in 459 
patients and S. maltophilia negative: 23,821 in 22,230 patients) were registered 
during the study period. We found that a lower respiratory tract culture 
positive for S. maltophilia was associated with both increased mortality: HR 3.3 
(95% CI 2.6-4.3), and hospitalisation for exacerbation of COPD: HR 3.4 (95% CI 
2.8-4.1).
CONCLUSIONS: A lower respiratory tract culture positive for S. maltophilia in 
COPD patients was associated with a substantially increased mortality and 
hospitalisation for exacerbation of COPD. Randomised controlled trials are 
proposed to determine whether S. maltophilia should be the target of antibiotic 
treatment.