BACKGROUND: The Emergency Medical Service (EMS) in Germany is increasingly 
challenged by strongly rising demand. Speculations about a greater utilisation 
for minor cases have led to intensive media coverage, but empirical evidence is 
lacking. We investigated the development of low-acuity calls from 2018 to 2021 
in the federal state of Berlin and its correlations with sociodemographic 
characteristics.
METHODS: We analysed over 1.5 million call documentations including medical 
dispatch codes, age, location and time using descriptive and inferential 
statistics and multivariate binary logistic regression. We defined a code list 
to classify low-acuity calls and merged the dataset with sociodemographic 
indicators and data on population density.
RESULTS: The number of emergency calls (phone number 112 in Germany) increased 
by 9.1% from 2018 to 2021; however, the proportion of low-acuity calls did not 
increase. The regression model shows higher odds of low-acuity for young to 
medium age groups (especially for age 0-9, OR 1.50 [95% CI 1.45-1.55]; age 
10-19, OR 1.77 [95% CI 1.71-1.83]; age 20-29, OR 1.64 [95% CI 1.59-1.68] and age 
30-39, OR 1.40 [95% CI 1.37-1.44]; p < 0.001, reference group 80-89) and for 
females (OR 1.12 [95% CI 1.1-1.13], p < 0.001). Odds were slightly higher for 
calls from a neighbourhood with lower social status (OR 1.01 per index unit 
increase [95% CI 1.0-1.01], p < 0.05) and at the weekend (OR 1.02 [95% CI 
1.0-1.04, p < 0.05]). No significant association of the call volume with 
population density was detected.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis provides valuable new insights into pre-hospital 
emergency care. Low-acuity calls were not the primary driver of increased EMS 
utilisation in Berlin. Younger age is the strongest predictor for low-acuity 
calls in the model. The association with female gender is significant, while 
socially deprived neighbourhoods play a minor role. No statistically significant 
differences in call volume between densely and less densely populated regions 
were detected. The results can inform the EMS in future resource planning.