INTRODUCTION: To evaluate the ability of intestinal ultrasound (IUS) in 
discriminating symptomatic uncomplicated diverticular disease (SUDD) among 
patients with abdominal symptoms including irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
METHODS: This observational, prospective study included consecutive patients 
classified into the following categories: (i) SUDD; (ii) IBS; (iii) 
unclassifiable abdominal symptoms; and (iv) controls, including asymptomatic 
healthy subjects and diverticulosis. The IUS evaluation of the sigmoid: assessed 
the presence of diverticula, thickness of the muscularis propria, and IUS-evoked 
pain, namely the intensity of pain evoked by compression with the ultrasound 
probe on sigmoid colon compared with an area of the left lower abdominal 
quadrant without underlying sigmoid colon.
RESULTS: We enrolled 40 patients with SUDD, 20 patients with IBS, 28 patients 
with unclassifiable abdominal symptoms, 10 healthy controls, and 20 patients 
with diverticulosis. Patients with SUDD displayed significantly ( P < 0.001) 
greater muscle thickness (2.25 ± 0.73 mm) compared with patients with IBS (1.66 
± 0.32 mm), patients with unclassifiable abdominal pain, and healthy subjects, 
but comparable with that of patients with diverticulosis (2.35 ± 0.71 mm). 
Patients with SUDD showed a greater (not significant) differential pain score 
than other patients. There was a significant correlation between the thickness 
of the muscularis propria and the differential pain score only for patients with 
SUDD ( r = 0.460; P : 0.01). Sigmoid diverticula were detected by colonoscopy in 
40 patients (42.4%) and by IUS with a sensitivity of 96.0% and a specificity of 
98.5%.
DISCUSSION: IUS could represent a useful diagnostic tool for SUDD, potentially 
useful in characterizing the disease and appropriately address the therapeutic 
approach.