BACKGROUND: While early appropriate antibiotic therapy is a proven means of 
limiting the progression of infections, especially bacteremia, empirical 
antibiotic therapy in sepsis is ineffective up to 30%. The aim of this study was 
to compare early blood culture testing protocols in terms of their ability to 
shorten the delay between blood sampling and appropriate antibiotic therapy.
METHODS: In this french observational study, we compared three blood culture 
testing protocols. Positive blood cultures were tested using either GenMark 
ePlex panels (multiplex PCR period), a combination of MRSA/SA PCR, Î²-Lacta and 
oxidase tests (multitest period), or conventional identification and 
susceptibility tests only (reference period). Conventional identification and 
susceptibility tests were performed in parallel for all samples, as the gold 
standard.
RESULTS: Among the 270 patients with positive blood cultures included, early and 
conventional results were in good agreement, especially for the multitest 
period. The delay between a blood culture positivity and initial results was 3.8 
(2.9-6.9) h in the multiplex PCR period, 2.6 (1.3-4.5) h in the multitest period 
and 3.7 (1.8-8.2) h in the reference period (p<0.01). Antibiotic therapy was 
initiated or adjusted in 68 patients based on early analysis results. The 
proportion of patients receiving appropriate antibiotic therapy within 48 h of 
blood sampling was higher in the multiplex PCR and multitest periods, 
(respectively 90% and 88%) than in the reference period (71%).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest rapid bacterial identification and antibiotic 
resistance tests are feasible, efficient and can expedite appropriate antibiotic 
therapy.