PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine the survival benefits of a 
workflow in which an interventional radiology (IR) team participates in a 
primary trauma survey on patients with hemodynamically unstable trauma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective observational study was conducted between 
2012 and 2019 at a single institution. Patients who underwent an IR procedure as 
the initial hemostasis were assigned to the hemodynamically stable group (HSG) 
or hemodynamically unstable group (HUG). The primary and secondary outcomes were 
survival at hospital discharge compared with the probability of survival (Ps) 
and the time course.
RESULTS: A total of 160 patients (100 men, 60 women; median age, 57.5 years 
[interquartile range (IQR): 31.5-72 years]) with an injury severity score of 24 
(IQR: 13.75-34) were included. A total of 125 patients were included in the HSG 
group and 35 patients in the HUG group. The observational survival rate was 
significantly greater than the Ps rate by 4.9% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 
1.6-8.4%; P = 0.005) in HSG and by 24.6% in HUG (95% CI: 16.9-32.3%; P < 0.001). 
The observational survival rate was significantly greater than Ps in HUG than in 
HSG (P < 0.001). The median time to initiate IR procedures and the median 
procedure time in HUG were 54 min [IQR: 45-66 min] and 48 min [IQR: 30-85 min], 
respectively; both were significantly shorter than those in the HSG.
CONCLUSION: A trauma workflow utilizing an IR team in a primary survey is 
associated with improved survival of patients with hemodynamically unstable 
trauma when compared with Ps with a shorter time course.