OBJECTIVE: To describe a systematic process of transforming paper registers into 
a digital system optimized to enhance service provision and fulfil reporting 
requirements.
METHODS: We designed a formative study around primary health workers providing 
reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health services in three countries in 
Bangladesh, Indonesia and Pakistan. The study ran from November 2014 to June 
2018. We developed a prototype digital application after conducting a needs 
assessment of health workers' responsibilities, workflows, routine data 
requirements and service delivery needs. Methods included desk reviews, focus 
group discussions, in-depth interviews; data mapping of paper registers; 
observations of health workers; co-design workshops with health workers; and 
usability testing. Finally, we conducted an observational feasibility assessment 
to monitor uptake of the application.
FINDINGS: Researchers reviewed a total of 17 paper registers across the sites, 
which we transformed into seven modules within a digital application running on 
mobile devices. Modules corresponded to the services provided, including 
household enumeration, antenatal care, family planning, immunization, nutrition 
and child health. A total of 65 health workers used the modules during the 
feasibility assessment, and average weekly form submissions ranged from 8 to 
234, depending on the health worker and their responsibilities. We also observed 
variability in the use of modules, requiring consistent monitoring support for 
health workers.
CONCLUSION: Lessons learnt from this study shaped key global initiatives and 
resulted in a software global good. The deployment of digital systems requires 
well-designed applications, change management and strengthening human resources 
to realize and sustain health system gains.