BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic required that our research team change our 
mail-only (MO) strategy for a research survey to a strategy more manageable by 
staff working remotely. We used a modified web-push approach (MWP), in which 
patients were mailed a request to respond online and invited to call if they 
preferred the questionnaire by mail or phone. We also changed from a 
pre-completion gift to a post-completion gift card incentive. Our objective is 
to compare response patterns between modes for a survey that used an MO strategy 
pre-pandemic followed by an MWP strategy peri-pandemic for data collection.
METHODS: Observational study using data from a national multi-scale survey about 
patients' experience of specialty care coordination administered via MO in 2019 
and MWP from 2020 to 2021 to Veterans receiving primary care and specialty care 
within the Veterans Health Administration (VA). We compared response rates, 
respondent characteristics and responses about care coordination between MO and 
MWP, applying propensity weights to account for differences in the underlying 
samples.
RESULTS: The response rate was lower for MWP vs. MO (13.4% vs. 36.6%), 
OR = 0.27, 95% CI = 0.25-0.30, P < .001). Respondent characteristics were 
similar across MO and MWP. Coordination scale scores tended to be slightly 
higher for MWP, but the effect sizes for these differences between modes were 
small for 9 out of 10 scales.
CONCLUSIONS: While the logistics of MWP survey data collection are well-suited 
to the remote research work environment, response rates were lower than those 
for the MO method. Future studies should examine addition of multi-mode contacts 
and/or pre-completion incentives to increase response rates for MWP.