PURPOSE: To investigate whether the COVID-19 pandemic and national lockdown had 
an impact on the extent of cancer disease at FDG PET/CT staging as surrogate 
marker.
METHODS: Retrospective observational study including cancer patients submitted 
to FDG PET/CT staging from June 1 to October 31, 2020, and June 1 to October 31, 
2019, respectively. Data regarding primary tumour, nodal (N) status and number 
of involved nodal stations, and presence and number of distant metastases (M) 
were collected. Each scan was classified in limited vs advanced status. Data 
were aggregated across the study population and tumour type. Bi-weekly 
frequencies of the observed events were analysed.
RESULTS: Six hundred eleven patients were included (240 in 2019 vs 371 in 2020, 
respectively). A significant increase of advanced disease patients (rate 1.56, 
P < 0.001), N + or M + patients (rate 1.84 and 2.09, respectively, P < 0.001), 
and patients with a greater number of involved N stations or M (rate 2.01 and 
2.06, respectively, P < 0.001) were found in 2020 compared with data of 2019. 
Analysis by tumour type showed a significant increase of advanced disease in 
lymphoma and lung cancer in 2020 compared with 2019 (P < 0.001). In addition, a 
significant increase of nodal involvement was found in lung, gastro-intestinal, 
and breast cancers, as well as in lymphoma patients (P < 0.02). A significant 
increase of distant metastases was found in lung cancers (P = 0.002).
CONCLUSION: Cancer patients with advanced disease at FDG PET/CT staging 
increased in 2020 compared with 2019, following the national lockdown due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, 1.5-fold with a significant increase of patients with N or M 
involvement. Targeted health interventions are needed to mitigate the effects of 
the pandemic on patient outcome.