BACKGROUND: COVID-19 patients requiring mechanical ventilation are particularly 
at risk of developing ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP). Risk factors and 
the prognostic impact of developing VAP during critical COVID-19 have not been 
fully documented.
METHODS: Patients invasively ventilated for at least 48 h from the prospective 
multicentre COVID-ICU database were included in the analyses. Cause-specific Cox 
regression models were used to determine factors associated with the occurrence 
of VAP. Cox-regression multivariable models were used to determine VAP 
prognosis. Risk factors and the prognostic impact of early vs. late VAP, and 
Pseudomonas-related vs. non-Pseudomonas-related VAP were also determined.
MAIN FINDINGS: 3388 patients were analysed (63 [55-70] years, 75.8% males). VAP 
occurred in 1523/3388 (45.5%) patients after 7 [5-9] days of ventilation. 
Identified bacteria were mainly Enterobacteriaceae followed by Staphylococcus 
aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. VAP risk factors were male gender (Hazard 
Ratio (HR) 1.26, 95% Confidence Interval [1.09-1.46]), concomitant bacterial 
pneumonia at ICU admission (HR 1.36 [1.10-1.67]), PaO2/FiO2 ratio at intubation 
(HR 0.99 [0.98-0.99] per 10 mmHg increase), neuromuscular-blocking agents (HR 
0.89 [0.76-0.998]), and corticosteroids (HR 1.27 [1.09-1.47]). VAP was 
associated with 90-mortality (HR 1.34 [1.16-1.55]), predominantly due to late 
VAP (HR 1.51 [1.26-1.81]). The impact of Pseudomonas-related and 
non-Pseudomonas-related VAP on mortality was similar.
CONCLUSION: VAP affected almost half of mechanically ventilated COVID-19 
patients. Several risk factors have been identified, among which modifiable risk 
factors deserve further investigation. VAP had a specific negative impact on 
90-day mortality, particularly when it occurred between the end of the first 
week and the third week of ventilation.