PURPOSE: Participating in cardiac rehabilitation (CR) after a cardiac event 
provides many clinical benefits. Patients of lower socioeconomic status (SES) 
are less likely to attend CR. It is unclear whether they attain similar clinical 
benefits as patients with higher SES. This study examines how educational 
attainment (one measure of SES) predicts both adherence to and improvements 
during CR.
METHODS: This was a prospective observational study of 1407 patients enrolled 
between January 2016 and December 2019 in a CR program located in Burlington, 
VT. Years of education, smoking status (self-reported and objectively measured), 
depression symptom level (Patient Health Questionnaire), self-reported physical 
function (Medical Outcomes Survey), level of fitness (peak metabolic equivalent, 
peak oxygen uptake, and handgrip strength), and body composition (body mass 
index and waist circumference) were obtained at entry to, and for a subset (n = 
917), at exit from CR. Associations of educational attainment with baseline 
characteristics were examined using Kruskal-Wallis or Pearson's Ï‡ 2 tests as 
appropriate. Associations of educational attainment with improvements during CR 
were examined using analysis of covariance or logistic regression as 
appropriate.
RESULTS: Educational attainment was significantly associated with most patient 
characteristics examined at intake and was a significant predictor of the number 
of CR sessions completed. Lower educational attainment was associated with less 
improvement in cardiorespiratory fitness, even when controlling for other 
variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with lower SES attend fewer sessions of CR than their 
higher SES counterparts and may not attain the same level of benefit from 
attending. Programs need to increase attendance within this population and 
consider program modifications that further support behavioral changes during 
CR.