OBJECTIVES: To compare the incidence of cardiovascular (CV) events in rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) treated with janus kinase inhibitors (JAKi), tumour necrosis 
factor inhibitors (TNFi), or other biological disease-modifying antirheumatic 
drugs (bDMARDs), in clinical practice, and to contextualise these findings by 
comparing to the Swedish RA population and general population at large.
METHODS: Patients with RA initiating JAKi, TNFi and non-TNFi bDMARDs were 
identified in the Swedish Rheumatology Quality Register between 2016 and 2021. 
Through linkages to national registers, a cohort of patients with RA, general 
population comparators, as well as covariates and incident major acute CV event 
(MACE, including myocardial infarction, stroke and fatal CV events) were 
identified until 2022. Crude and age-sex standardised rates were calculated and 
HRs estimated from multivariable Cox regression models using TNFi as reference.
RESULTS: We identified 13 492 patients with RA initiating a JAKi, non-TNFi 
bDMARD or TNFi treatment. Among 3037 JAKi-initiators, 59 MACE events were 
observed. The age-sex standardised rates for MACE were similar in the JAKi (0.88 
per 100 person years) and TNFi (0.91) cohorts. Fully adjusted models showed no 
increased rate of MACE with JAKi (HR=0.71, 95% CI 0.51 to 0.99), or non-TNFi 
bDMARD (HR=0.98; 95% CI 0.78 to 1.23) in comparison to TNFi. We found no 
evidence that this HR changed over time since treatment initiation. In a 
CV-enriched subset, we observed higher rates but similar HRs.
CONCLUSIONS: As used in present clinical practice in Sweden, we found no 
evidence that CV risk is higher with JAKis than TNFis in RA.