PURPOSE: This study assesses the potential for vascular-metabolic imaging with 
FluoroDeoxyGlucose (FDG)-Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography 
(PET/CT) perfusion to provide markers of prognosis specific to the site and 
stage of colorectal cancer.
METHODS: This prospective observational study comprised of participants with 
suspected colorectal cancer categorized as either (a) non-metastatic colon 
cancer (M0colon), (b) non-metastatic rectal cancer (M0rectum), or (c) metastatic 
colorectal cancer (M+). Combined FDG-PET/CT perfusion imaging was successfully 
performed in 286 participants (184 males, 102 females, age: 69.60 ± 10 years) 
deriving vascular and metabolic imaging parameters. Vascular and metabolic 
imaging parameters alone and in combination were investigated with respect to 
overall survival.
RESULTS: A vascular-metabolic signature that was significantly associated with 
poorer survival was identified for each patient group: M0colon - high Total 
Lesion Glycolysis (TLG) with increased Permeability Surface Area Product/Blood 
Flow (PS/BF), Hazard Ratio (HR) 3.472 (95% CI: 1.441-8.333), p = 0.006; M0rectum 
- high Metabolic Tumour Volume (MTV) with increased PS/BF, HR 4.567 (95% CI: 
1.901-10.970), p = 0.001; M+ participants, high MTV with longer Time To Peak 
(TTP) enhancement, HR 2.421 (95% CI: 1.162-5.045), p = 0.018. In participants 
with stage 2 colon cancer as well as those with stage 3 rectal cancer, the 
vascular-metabolic signature could stratify the prognosis of these participants.
CONCLUSION: Vascular and metabolic imaging using FDG-PET/CT can be used to 
synergise prognostic markers. The hazard ratios suggest that the technique may 
have clinical utility.