PURPOSE: To evaluate a prototype home optical coherence tomography device and 
automated analysis software for detection and quantification of retinal fluid 
relative to manual human grading in a cohort of patients with neovascular 
age-related macular degeneration.
METHODS: Patients undergoing anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapy 
were enrolled in this prospective observational study. In 136 optical coherence 
tomography scans from 70 patients using the prototype home optical coherence 
tomography device, fluid segmentation was performed using automated analysis 
software and compared with manual gradings across all retinal fluid types using 
receiver-operating characteristic curves. The Dice similarity coefficient was 
used to assess the accuracy of segmentations, and correlation of fluid areas 
quantified end point agreement.
RESULTS: Fluid detection per B-scan had area under the receiver-operating 
characteristic curves of 0.95, 0.97, and 0.98 for intraretinal fluid, subretinal 
fluid, and subretinal pigment epithelium fluid, respectively. On a per volume 
basis, the values for intraretinal fluid, subretinal fluid, and subretinal 
pigment epithelium fluid were 0.997, 0.998, and 0.998, respectively. The average 
Dice similarity coefficient values across all B-scans were 0.64, 0.73, and 0.74, 
and the coefficients of determination were 0.81, 0.93, and 0.97 for intraretinal 
fluid, subretinal fluid, and subretinal pigment epithelium fluid, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Home optical coherence tomography device images assessed using the 
automated analysis software showed excellent agreement to manual human grading.