BACKGROUND: Bacterial whole-genome sequencing (WGS) has the potential to 
identify reservoirs of multidrug-resistant organisms and transmission of these 
pathogens across healthcare networks. We used WGS to define transmission of 
vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) within a long-term care facility (LTCF), 
and between this and an acute hospital in the United Kingdom (UK).
METHODS: A longitudinal prospective observational study of faecal VRE carriage 
was conducted in a LTCF in Cambridge, UK. Stool samples were collected at 
recruitment, and then repeatedly until the end of the study period, discharge or 
death. Selective culture media were used to isolate VRE, which were subsequently 
sequenced and analysed. We also analysed the genomes of 45 Enterococcus faecium 
bloodstream isolates collected at Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust (CUH).
RESULTS: Forty-five residents were recruited during a 6-month period in 2014, 
and 693 stools were collected at a frequency of at least 1 week apart. Fifty-one 
stool samples from 3/45 participants (7 %) were positive for 
vancomycin-resistant E. faecium. Two residents carried multiple VRE lineages, 
and one carried a single VRE lineage. Genome analyses based on single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) in the core genome indicated that VRE carried by each of 
the three residents were unrelated. Participants had extensive contact with the 
local healthcare network. We found that VRE genomes from LTCF residents and 
hospital-associated bloodstream infection were interspersed throughout the 
phylogenetic tree, with several instances of closely related VRE strains from 
the two settings.
CONCLUSIONS: A proportion of LTCF residents are long-term carriers of VRE. 
Evidence for genetic relatedness between these and VRE associated with 
bloodstream infection in a nearby acute NHS Trust indicate a shared bacterial 
population.