OBJECTIVE: To examine whether BNT162b2 mRNA vaccination during pregnancy is 
associated with adverse neonatal and early infant outcomes among the newborns.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Population-based cohort study comprising all 
singleton live births in March through September 2021, within a large 
state-mandated health care organization in Israel, followed up until October 31, 
2021.
EXPOSURE: Maternal BNT162b2 mRNA vaccination during pregnancy.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Risk ratios (RR) of preterm birth, small birth 
weight for gestational age (SGA), congenital malformations, all-cause 
hospitalizations, and infant death. Stabilized inverse probability weighting was 
used to adjust for maternal age, timing of conception, parity, socioeconomic 
status, population subgroup, and maternal influenza immunization status.
RESULTS: The cohort included 24 288 eligible newborns (49% female, 96% born at 
≥37 weeks' gestation), of whom 16 697 were exposed (n = 2134 and n = 9364 in the 
first and second trimesters, respectively) to maternal vaccination in utero. 
Median (IQR) follow-up after birth was 126 days (76-179) among exposed and 152 
days (88-209) among unexposed newborns. No substantial differences were observed 
in preterm birth rates between exposed and unexposed newborns (RR = 0.95; 95% 
CI, 0.83-1.10) or SGA (RR = 0.97; 95% CI, 0.87-1.08). No significant differences 
were observed in the incidence of all-cause neonatal hospitalizations 
(RR = 0.99; 95% CI, 0.88-1.12), postneonatal hospitalizations after birth 
(RR = 0.95; 95% CI, 0.84-1.07), congenital anomalies (RR = 0.69; 95% CI, 
0.44-1.04), or infant mortality over the study period (RR = 0.84; 95% CI, 
0.43-1.72).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This large population-based study found no evident 
differences between newborns of women who received BNT162b2 mRNA vaccination 
during pregnancy, vs those of women who were not vaccinated, and contributes to 
current evidence in establishing the safety of prenatal vaccine exposure to the 
newborns. Interpretation of study findings is limited by the observational 
design.