BACKGROUND: Bacterial meningitis (BM) is a rare but severe infection. Few 
population-based studies have characterised BM episodes and sequelae over long 
periods.
METHODS: This was a population-based observational cohort study with national 
coverage, using data on aetiological pathogens, sex, premorbid conditions, 
steroid pretreatment, severe sequelae and birth, death and diagnosis dates 
collected from 10,339 patients with BM reported to the National Board of Health 
and Welfare in Sweden between 1964 and 2014.
RESULTS: During the 50-year study period, the incidence of BM decreased in young 
children, but not in the elderly. The most common cause of BM was pneumococci 
(34%), followed by Haemophilus influenzae (26%), and meningococci (18%), mainly 
community acquired. Premorbid conditions were found in 20%. After the H. 
influenzae type b vaccine was introduced in 1993, the BM incidence decreased by 
36%. Following pneumococcal conjugated vaccine introduction in 2009, the 
incidence and 30-day mortality from pneumococcal meningitis decreased by 64% and 
100%, respectively, in previously healthy children, and the 30-day mortality 
decreased by 64% among comorbid adults. The BM incidence in immunosuppressed 
patients increased by 3% annually post vaccine introduction. The 30-day 
mortality was 3% in children and 14% in adults, and the rate of severe sequelae 
was 44%. On average, patients lost 11 years of healthy life due to BM.
CONCLUSION: The introduction of conjugated vaccines into the childhood 
vaccination program has reduced the incidence of BM in young children, but not 
in adults. Post vaccine introduction, patients present with more premorbid 
conditions and other bacterial causes of BM, emphasising the need for a correct 
diagnosis when treating these infections.