OBJECTIVE: The objectives of our study were to assess the association of 
radiomic and genomic data with histology and patient outcome in non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC).
METHODS: In this retrospective single-centre observational study, we selected 
151 surgically treated patients with adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma 
who performed baseline [18F] FDG PET/CT. A subgroup of patients with cancer 
tissue samples at the Institutional Biobank (n = 74/151) was included in the 
genomic analysis. Features were extracted from both PET and CT images using an 
in-house tool. The genomic analysis included detection of genetic variants, 
fusion transcripts, and gene expression. Generalised linear model (GLM) and 
machine learning (ML) algorithms were used to predict histology and tumour 
recurrence.
RESULTS: Standardised uptake value (SUV) and kurtosis (among the PET and CT 
radiomic features, respectively), and the expression of TP63, EPHA10, FBN2, and 
IL1RAP were associated with the histotype. No correlation was found between 
radiomic features/genomic data and relapse using GLM. The ML approach identified 
several radiomic/genomic rules to predict the histotype successfully. The ML 
approach showed a modest ability of PET radiomic features to predict relapse, 
while it identified a robust gene expression signature able to predict patient 
relapse correctly. The best-performing ML radiogenomic rule predicting the 
outcome resulted in an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.87.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiogenomic data may provide clinically relevant information in 
NSCLC patients regarding the histotype, aggressiveness, and progression. Gene 
expression analysis showed potential new biomarkers and targets valuable for 
patient management and treatment. The application of ML allows to increase the 
efficacy of radiogenomic analysis and provides novel insights into cancer 
biology.