OBJECTIVE: Another course of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is often 
considered in patients with cancer progression and previous immune-related 
adverse events, including inflammatory arthritis (ICI-IA), but there are limited 
data regarding safety of ICI rechallenge in this setting. We aimed to assess the 
rate and clinical features associated with ICI-IA flare/recurrence on ICI 
rechallenge.
METHODS: We conducted a multicentre observational study including cancer 
patients with ICI-IA who started a second course of ICI more than 3 months after 
ICI discontinuation in four French university hospitals. Primary outcome was the 
frequency of ICI flare/recurrence after ICI rechallenge.
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients were included. At the time of ICI rechallenge, 18 
patients reported no symptoms of ICI-IA (78%) and 5 had grade 1 (22%), 11 
patients (48%) were not receiving any ICI-IA treatment, 11 (48%) were still on 
prednisone, 2 (9%) were on conventional synthetic disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs and 1 (4%) on anti-IL-6. ICI-IA flare/recurrence occurred in 
12 patients (52%) with a median time of 1â€‰month after ICI rechallenge. ICI-IA 
phenotype, disease activity and ICI-IA treatment at the time of ICI rechallenge 
did not differ according to ICI-IA flare/recurrence status.
CONCLUSION: In this first observational study of ICI-IA patients rechallenged 
with ICI, about half of the patients experienced ICI-IA flare/recurrence with a 
similar phenotype but occurring earlier than the initial ICI-IA, warranting 
close monitoring during the first month of retreatment. Risk of flare did not 
differ according to baseline immunosuppressive treatment at the time of 
rechallenge.