BACKGROUND: Different patient clusters were preliminarily suggested to dissect 
the clinical heterogeneity in Still's disease. Thus, we aimed at deriving and 
validating disease clusters in a multicentre, observational, prospective study 
to stratify these patients.
METHODS: Patients included in GIRRCS AOSD-study group and AIDA Network Still 
Disease Registry were assessed if variables for cluster analysis were available 
(age, systemic score, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C reactive protein 
(CRP) and ferritin). K-means algorithm with Euclidean metric and Elbow plot were 
used to derive an adequate number of clusters.
RESULTS: K-means clustering assessment provided four clusters based on means 
standardised according to z-scores on 349 patients. All clusters mainly 
presented fever, skin rash and joint involvement. Cluster 1 was composed by 115 
patients distinguished by lower values of age and characterised by skin rash 
myalgia, sore throat and splenomegaly. Cluster 2 included 128 patients 
identified by lower levels of ESR, ferritin and systemic score; multiorgan 
manifestations were less frequently observed. Cluster 3 comprised 31 patients 
categorised by higher levels of CRP and ferritin, they were characterised by 
fever and joint involvement. Cluster 4 contained 75 patients derived by higher 
values of age and systemic score. Myalgia, sore throat, liver involvement and 
life-threatening complications, leading to a high mortality rate, were observed 
in these patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Four patient clusters in Still's disease may be recognised by a 
multidimensional characterisation ('Juvenile/Transitional', 'Uncomplicated', 
'Hyperferritinemic' and 'Catastrophic'). Of interest, cluster 4 was burdened by 
an increased rate of life-threatening complications and mortality, suggesting a 
more severe patient group.