OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of an active surveillance (AS) approach on the 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of patients with desmoid-type 
fibromatosis (DTF).
BACKGROUND DATA: AS is recommended as initial approach in DTF patients. AS might 
however negatively affect HRQoL due to physical symptoms or stress and anxiety.
METHODS: In a prospective observational study, the GRAFITI trial (NTR4714), DTF 
patients were followed during an initial AS approach for 3 years. HRQoL was 
assessed by the EORTC QLQ-C30 at baseline, 6, 12 and 24-month follow-up. 
Patients who completed questionnaires at≥1-time point were included in this 
analysis of the secondary endpoint. A multivariable linear mixed-effects model 
with random intercept was conducted to assess trends of HRQoL scores over time 
and to explore the effect of treatment strategy on HRQoL.
RESULTS: All 105 patients enrolled in the GRAFITI trial were eligible for the 
HRQoL analyses. During 24-month follow-up, 75 patients (71%) continued AS and 30 
patients (29%) started an active treatment (AT). DTF patients who continued AS 
demonstrated relatively stable HRQoL scores during follow-up. HRQoL scores of 
patients who started AT worsened compared to patients who continued AS, although 
no significant changes in HRQoL score over time were found in the mixed-model 
analyses. Overall, DTF patients who started AT scored significantly worse on 
pain (β=10.08, P =0.039) compared to patients who continued AS.
CONCLUSIONS: An initial AS approach did not impair HRQoL of DTF patients who 
continued AS over time, therefore providing further support for AS as the 
frontline approach in DTF patients. Longitudinal assessment of HRQoL should be 
part of clinical follow-up to identify patients who may need a change in 
treatment strategy.