AIMS: The safety and efficacy of transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) 
with contemporary balloon expandable transcatheter valves in patients with 
cardiogenic shock (CS) remain largely unknown. In this study, the TAVRs 
performed for CS between June 2015 and September 2022 using SAPIEN 3 and SAPIEN 
3 Ultra bioprosthesis from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons/American College of 
Cardiology Transcatheter Valve Therapy Registry were analysed.
METHODS AND RESULTS: CS was defined as: (i) coding of CS within 24 h on 
Transcatheter Valve Therapy Registry form; and/or (ii) pre-procedural use of 
inotropes or mechanical circulatory support devices and/or (iii) cardiac arrest 
within 24 h prior to TAVR. The control group was comprised of all the other 
patients undergoing TAVR. Baseline characteristics, all-cause mortality, and 
major complications at 30-day and 1-year outcomes were reported. Landmark 
analysis was performed at 30 days post-TAVR. Cox-proportional multivariable 
analysis was performed to determine the predictors of all-cause mortality at 1 
year. A total of 309 505 patients underwent TAVR with balloon-expandable valves 
during the study period. Of these, 5006 patients presented with CS prior to TAVR 
(1.6%). The mean Society of Thoracic Surgeons score was 10.76 ± 10.4. The valve 
was successfully implanted in 97.9% of patients. Technical success according to 
Valve Academic Research Consortium-3 criteria was 94.5%. In a propensity-matched 
analysis, CS was associated with higher in-hospital (9.9% vs. 2.7%), 30-day 
(12.9% vs. 4.9%), and 1-year (29.7% vs. 22.6%) mortality compared to the 
patients undergoing TAVR without CS. In the landmark analysis after 30 days, the 
risk of 1-year mortality was similar between the two groups [hazard ratio (HR) 
1.07, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.95-1.21]. Patients who were alive at 1 year 
noted significant improvements in functional class (Class I/II 89%) and quality 
of life (ΔKCCQ score +50). In the multivariable analysis, older age (HR 1.02, 
95% CI 1.02-1.03), peripheral artery disease (HR 1.25, 95% CI 1.06-1.47), prior 
implantation of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (HR 1.37, 95% CI 
1.07-1.77), patients on dialysis (HR 2.07, 95% CI 1.69-2.53), immunocompromised 
status (HR 1.33, 95% CI 1.05-1.69), New York Heart Association class III/IV 
symptoms (HR 1.50, 95% CI 1.06-2.12), lower aortic valve mean gradient, lower 
albumin levels, lower haemoglobin levels, and lower Kansas City Cardiomyopathy 
Questionnaire scores were independently associated with 1-year mortality.
CONCLUSION: This large observational real-world study demonstrates that the TAVR 
is a safe and effective treatment for aortic stenosis patients presenting with 
CS. Patients who survived the first 30 days after TAVR had similar mortality 
rates to those who were not in CS.