AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Previous studies have suggested that glucose variability may 
accelerate atherosclerosis progression in people with type 2 diabetes. Current 
guidelines recommend assessing glycaemic control using continuous glucose 
monitoring (CGM), which provides a comprehensive glycaemic profile to supplement 
HbA1c measurement. However, the association between CGM-derived metrics and 
atherosclerosis progression is not entirely clear.
METHODS: This exploratory study used baseline data and data obtained after 104 
weeks from an ongoing prospective, multicentre, observational study. Six hundred 
study participants with type 2 diabetes and no apparent history of symptomatic 
cardiovascular disease underwent CGM and ultrasonographic atherosclerosis 
measurements of the carotid arteries, including the intima-media thickness (IMT) 
and grey-scale median (GSM), at baseline and 104 weeks. Non-invasive ultrasonic 
tissue characterisation of the carotid artery wall or plaque using the GSM 
reflects vascular composition. Multivariate regression models were used to 
analyse the association between CGM-derived indices, mainly time in range (TIR) 
and CV, and changes in carotid atherosclerosis index values.
RESULTS: Over the 104-week study period, there were modest increases in mean IMT 
(from 0.759±0.153 to 0.773±0.152 mm, p<0.001) and thickened-lesion GSM (from 
43.5±19.5 to 53.9±23.5 units, p<0.001), but no significant changes in common 
carotid artery maximum-IMT (from 1.109±0.442 to 1.116±0.469 mm, p=0.453) or mean 
GSM (from 48.7±19.3 to 49.8±20.8 units, p=0.092). In a linear regression model 
with adjustment for possible atherosclerotic risk factors, including HbA1c, TIR 
and CV at baseline were significantly associated with the annual change in mean 
GSM (regression coefficient per 10% increase in TIR 0.52; 95% CI 0.06, 0.98; 
Hochberg-adjusted p value 0.038; regression coefficient per 1% increase in CV 
-0.12; 95% CI -0.22, -0.02; Hochberg-adjusted p value 0.038). TIR and CV at 
baseline were also significantly associated with the annual change in 
thickened-lesion GSM (regression coefficient per 10% increase in TIR 0.95; 95% 
CI 0.12, 1.79; Hochberg-adjusted p value 0.038; regression coefficient per 1% 
increase in CV -0.19; 95% CI -0.36, -0.01; Hochberg-adjusted p value 0.038). 
Participants who achieved target CGM-derived metrics at baseline, as proposed by 
an international consensus, showed significant annual changes in mean GSM 
compared with those who did not (0.94±6.88 vs -0.21±6.19 units/year, p=0.007).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: TIR and CV were significantly associated with 
changes in the tissue characteristics of the carotid artery wall.