OBJECTIVE: The main objective of this pediatric study of otologic surgery was to 
analyze factors for success of outpatient management. The secondary objective 
was to study unscheduled postoperative consultations and readmissions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective observational study analyzed clinical 
characteristics and procedures in consecutive children undergoing major ear 
surgery over a 3-year period in a teaching hospital. The study followed STROBE 
recommendations.
RESULTS: We included 214 day-cases from a total population of 271 children. 
Median age was 109Â±44months (9years) [range: 8-196months (16years)]. In 57% of 
cases, the procedure was performed without mastoidectomy: 84 myringoplasties and 
37 tympanoplasties. In 43% of cases, mastoidectomy was associated: 47 cochlear 
implants and 46 closed tympanoplasties for cholesteatoma. Ninety-five percent of 
day-surgeries were successful; in 5%, there was crossover to pediatric ENT 
department admission, for the following symptoms: postoperative nausea and 
vomiting in 3 cases, pain in 3, and late awakening in 5. Univariate analysis 
showed a relationship between failure and age under 36months (P=0.002). There 
were no readmissions. There were unscheduled consultations in 3% of cases: for 
minor otorrhagia in 5 cases and uncomplicated otorrhea in 2.
CONCLUSION: Major otologic surgery in children is compatible with day-surgery. 
Younger patients, usually candidates for cochlear implantation, had greater risk 
of crossover to conventional admission. In this age group, scheduling should be 
earlier in the morning, with rigorous postoperative nausea and vomiting 
prophylaxis.