BACKGROUND: Since the beginning of the COVID-19 vaccination campaigns, 
recommendations regarding the vaccination have been very dynamic. Although the 
safety and efficacy of different vaccines have been analysed, data were scarce 
for vaccine regimens combining different vaccines. We therefore aimed to 
evaluate and compare the perceived reactogenicity and need for medical 
consultation after the most frequently applied homologous and heterologous 
COVID-19 vaccination regimens.
METHODS: In an observational cohort study, reactogenicity and safety were 
assessed within a maximum follow-up time of 124 days using web-based surveys. 
Reactogenicity was assessed for different vaccination regimens 2 weeks after a 
vaccination (short-term survey). The following surveys, long-term and follow-up 
surveys, focused on the utilisation of medical services, including those that 
were not suspected to be vaccine-related.
RESULTS: Data of 17,269 participants were analysed. The least local reactions 
were seen after a ChAdOx1 - ChAdOx1 regimen (32.6%, 95% CI [28.2, 37.2]) and the 
most after the first dose with mRNA-1273 (73.9%, 95% CI [70.5, 77.2]). Systemic 
reactions were least frequent in participants with a BNT162b2 booster after a 
homologous primary immunisation with ChAdOx1 (42.9%, 95% CI [32.1, 54.1]) and 
most frequent after a ChAdOx1 - mRNA-1273 (85.5%, 95% CI [82.9, 87.8]) and 
mRNA-1273/mRNA-1273 regimen (85.1%, 95% CI [83.2, 87.0]). In the short-term 
survey, the most common consequences were medication intake and sick leave 
(after local reactions 0% to 9.9%; after systemic reactions 4.5% to 37.9%). In 
the long-term and follow-up surveys, between 8.2 and 30.9% of participants 
reported consulting a doctor and between 0% and 5.4% seeking hospital care. The 
regression analyses 124 days after the first and after the third dose showed 
that the odds for reporting medical consultation were comparable between the 
vaccination regimens.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis revealed differences in reactogenicity between the 
COVID-19 vaccines and vaccination regimens in Germany. The lowest reactogenicity 
as reported by participants was seen with BNT162b2, especially in homologous 
vaccination regimens. However, in all vaccination regimens reactogenicity rarely 
led to medical consultations. Small differences in seeking any medical 
consultation after 6 weeks diminished during the follow-up period. In the end, 
none of the vaccination regimens was associated with a higher risk for medical 
consultation.