BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Observational studies have linked elevated blood pressure 
(BP) to impaired cognitive function. However, the functional and structural 
changes in the brain that mediate the relationship between BP elevation and 
cognitive impairment remain unknown. Using observational and genetic data from 
large consortia, this study aimed to identify brain structures potentially 
associated with BP values and cognitive function.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Data on BP were integrated with 3935 brain magnetic 
resonance imaging-derived phenotypes (IDPs) and cognitive function defined by 
fluid intelligence score. Observational analyses were performed in the UK 
Biobank and a prospective validation cohort. Mendelian randomisation (MR) 
analyses used genetic data derived from the UK Biobank, International Consortium 
for Blood Pressure, and COGENT consortium. Mendelian randomisation analysis 
identified a potentially adverse causal effect of higher systolic BP on 
cognitive function [-0.044 standard deviation (SD); 95% confidence interval (CI) 
-0.066, -0.021] with the MR estimate strengthening (-0.087 SD; 95% CI -0.132, 
-0.042), when further adjusted for diastolic BP. Mendelian randomisation 
analysis found 242, 168, and 68 IDPs showing significant (false discovery rate P 
< 0.05) association with systolic BP, diastolic BP, and pulse pressure, 
respectively. Most of these IDPs were inversely associated with cognitive 
function in observational analysis in the UK Biobank and showed concordant 
effects in the validation cohort. Mendelian randomisation analysis identified 
relationships between cognitive function and the nine of the systolic 
BP-associated IDPs, including the anterior thalamic radiation, anterior corona 
radiata, or external capsule.
CONCLUSION: Complementary MR and observational analyses identify brain 
structures associated with BP, which may be responsible for the adverse effects 
of hypertension on cognitive performance.