BACKGROUND: Based on Barker's hypothesis, some studies investigated the 
associations between birth weight and several disorders. Apart from issues with 
statistical power and well-known shortcomings of the observational study design, 
there are no studies accounting for changes in weight-related body size over the 
life course regarding rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and 
multiple sclerosis.
METHODS: Using genetic information of up to 806 834 participants, this study 
investigated the associations between time-varying weight-related body size from 
birth to adulthood and the mentioned autoimmune diseases. Performing Mendelian 
randomisation (MR), the radial inverse-variance weighted approach was used 
iteratively in primary analyses. Robustness of the results was confirmed in 
several sensitivity analyses. Potential time-dependent mediation mechanisms were 
identified through network-clustering and assessed using multivariable MR.
RESULTS: Genetically predicted birth weight (fetal effect) was positively 
associated with rheumatoid arthritis (OR 1.44; 95% CI 1.17 to 1.77; Padj =0.005) 
but not with psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis or multiple sclerosis. This 
association was found to be mediated by body mass index (BMI) in adulthood (OR 
1.45; 95% CI 1.14 to 1.84; Padj =0.019) rather than childhood. The direct effect 
of birth weight attenuated (OR 1.19; 95% CI 0.88 to 1.62); Padj =1) after 
adjustment for time-varying BMI.
CONCLUSION: Increased birth weight appears to be a risk factor for later 
manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis due to both fetal genetic components and 
high BMI persisting into adulthood. Approaches to prevent and minimise the risk 
of rheumatoid arthritis could include preventing obesity in adults with high 
birth weight.