PURPOSE: To report the clinical efficacy and mid-term outcomes of endovascular 
treatment in patients with chronic, symptomatic, post-thrombotic femoro-iliac 
venous obstruction.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-two patients with post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS) 
presenting with femoro-iliac venous obstructive lesions treated in our 
institution by endovascular approach between March 2012 and October 2017 were 
retrospectively included. There were 27 women and 15 men with a mean age of 
47.3Â±17 (SD) years (range: 22-86 years). Procedure included first venous 
recanalization, then pre-dilatation and self-expandable metallic stenting of the 
narrowed or occluded iliac and/or femoral veins. Severity of PTS and quality of 
life were assessed at baseline and 3 months after the intervention respectively, 
using Villalta score and Chronic Venous Insufficiency Questionnaire (CIVIQ-20) 
scale. Imaging follow-up evaluation of stent patency was based on the results of 
duplex Doppler ultrasound and computed tomography.
RESULTS: Immediate technical success was achieved in 41/42 (97.6%) patients, 
without any major complications. Primary patency, primary assisted patency and 
secondary patency at the end of the median imaging follow-up of 18.1 months 
(IQR, 9.7-34.4) were achieved in 29/42 (66.7%) patients, 33/42 (78.6%) patients 
and 37/42 (88.1%) patients, respectively. Median Villalta and CIVIQ-20 scores 
decreased from 14 (IQR, 10-19) and 57 (IQR, 39-72) at baseline, respectively, to 
5 (IQR, 2-9) and 30 (IQR, 24-50) 3 months after the procedure, respectively 
(P<0.0001), showing significant decrease in the severity of PTS and improvement 
in the quality of life. The multiple linear regression model showed that both 
baseline Villalta and CIVIQ-20 scores ([95% CI: -7.80-3.79; P<0.0001] and [95% 
CI: 0.07-0.20; P<0.0001], respectively), age (95% CI: 0.04-0.19; P=0.002) and 
stenting expanse (95% CI: 0.97-5.65; P=0.006) were independent variables related 
to Villalta gain. Baseline Villalta (95% CI: 0.89-2.23; P<0.0001) was the single 
independent variable related to CIVIQ-20 gain.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the high clinical efficacy and favorable 
mid-term outcomes of endovascular stenting in patients with chronic symptomatic 
femoro-iliac venous obstructive lesions.