BACKGROUND: BCG is recommended as intravesical immunotherapy to reduce the risk 
of tumor recurrence in patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). 
Currently, it is unknown whether intravesical BCG application induces trained 
immunity.
METHODS: The aim of this research was to determine whether BCG immunotherapy 
induces trained immunity in NMIBC patients. We conducted a prospective 
observational cohort study in 17 NMIBC patients scheduled for BCG therapy and 
measured trained immunity parameters at 9 time points before and during a 1-year 
BCG maintenance regimen. Ex vivo cytokine production by peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells, epigenetic modifications, and changes in the monocyte 
transcriptome were measured. The frequency of respiratory infections was 
investigated in two larger cohorts of BCG-treated and non-BCG treated NMIBC 
patients as a surrogate measurement of trained immunity. Gene-based association 
analysis of genetic variants in candidate trained immunity genes and their 
association with recurrence-free survival and progression-free survival after 
BCG therapy was performed to investigate the hypothesized link between trained 
immunity and clinical response.
RESULTS: We found that intravesical BCG does induce trained immunity based on an 
increased production of TNF and IL-1Î² after heterologous ex vivo stimulation of 
circulating monocytes 6-12 weeks after intravesical BCG treatment; and a 37% 
decreased risk (OR 0.63 (95% CI 0.40 to 1.01)) for respiratory infections in 
BCG-treated versus non-BCG-treated NMIBC patients. An epigenomics approach 
combining chromatin immuno precipitation-sequencing and RNA-sequencing with in 
vitro trained immunity experiments identified enhanced inflammasome activity in 
BCG-treated individuals. Finally, germline variation in genes that affect 
trained immunity was associated with recurrence and progression after BCG 
therapy in NMIBC.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that BCG immunotherapy induces trained immunity in NMIBC 
patients and this may account for the protective effects against respiratory 
infections. The data of our gene-based association analysis suggest that a link 
between trained immunity and oncological outcome may exist. Future studies 
should further investigate how trained immunity affects the antitumor immune 
responses in BCG-treated NMIBC patients.