INTRODUCTION: Switzerland experienced two waves of COVID-19 in 2020, but with a 
different ICU admission and treatment management strategy. The timing of ICU 
admission and intubation remains a matter of debate in severe patients. The aim 
of our study was to describe the characteristics of ICU patients between two 
subsequent waves of COVID-19 who underwent a different management strategy and 
to assess whether the timing of intubation was associated with differences in 
mortality.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a prospective observational study of all 
adult patients with acute respiratory failure due to COVID-19 who required 
intubation between the 9th of March 2020 and the 9th of January 2021 in the 
intensive care unit (ICU) at Geneva University Hospitals, Switzerland.
RESULTS: Two hundred twenty-three patients were intubated during the study 
period; 124 during the first wave, and 99 during the second wave. Patients 
admitted to the ICU during the second wave had a higher SAPS II severity score 
(52.5 vs. 60; p = 0.01). The time from hospital admission to intubation was 
significantly longer during the second compared to the first wave (4 days [IQR, 
1-7] vs. 2 days [IQR, 0-4]; p < 0.01). All-cause ICU mortality was significantly 
higher during the second wave (42% vs. 23%; p < 0.01). In a multivariate 
analysis, the delay between hospital admission and intubation was significantly 
associated with ICU mortality (OR 3.25 [95% CI, 1.38-7.67]; p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In this observational study, delayed intubation was associated with 
increased mortality in patients with severe COVID-19. Further randomised 
controlled trials are needed.