BACKGROUND: Outbreaks of monkeypox have been ongoing in non-endemic countries 
since May 2022. A thorough assessment of its global zoonotic niche and potential 
transmission risk is lacking.
METHODS: We established an integrated database on global monkeypox virus (MPXV) 
occurrence during 1958 - 2022. Phylogenetic analysis was performed to examine 
the evolution of MPXV and effective reproductive number (Rt) was estimated over 
time to examine the dynamic of MPXV transmissibility. The potential ecological 
drivers of zoonotic transmission and inter-regional transmission risks of MPXV 
were examined.
RESULTS: As of 24 July 2022, a total of 49 432 human patients with MPXV 
infections have been reported in 78 countries. Based on 525 whole genome 
sequences, two main clades of MPXV were formed, of which Congo Basin clade has a 
higher transmissibility than West African clade before the 2022-monkeypox, 
estimated by the overall Rt (0.81 vs. 0.56), and the latter significantly 
increased in the recent decade. Rt of 2022-monkeypox varied from 1.14 to 4.24 
among the 15 continuously epidemic countries outside Africa, with the top three 
as Peru (4.24, 95% CI: 2.89-6.71), Brazil (3.45, 95% CI: 1.62-7.00) and the 
United States (2.44, 95% CI: 1.62-3.60). The zoonotic niche of MPXV was 
associated with the distributions of Graphiurus lorraineus and Graphiurus 
crassicaudatus, the richness of Rodentia, and four ecoclimatic indicators. 
Besides endemic areas in Africa, more areas of South America, the Caribbean 
States, and Southeast and South Asia are ecologically suitable for the 
occurrence of MPXV once the virus has invaded. Most of Western Europe has a 
high-imported risk of monkeypox from Western Africa, whereas France and the 
United Kingdom have a potential imported risk of Congo Basin clade MPXV from 
Central Africa. Eleven of the top 15 countries with a high risk of MPXV 
importation from the main countries of 2022-monkeypox outbreaks are located at 
Europe with the highest risk in Italy, Ireland and Poland.
CONCLUSIONS: The suitable ecological niche for MPXV is not limited to Africa, 
and the transmissibility of MPXV was significantly increased during the 
2022-monkeypox outbreaks. The imported risk is higher in Europe, both from 
endemic areas and currently epidemic countries. Future surveillance and targeted 
intervention programs are needed in its high-risk areas informed by updated 
prediction.