OBJECTIVE: To determine whether participation in the United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the World Health Organization's (WHO) Stop Overdose 
Safely (S-O-S) take-home naloxone training project in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, 
Tajikistan and Ukraine resulted in naloxone use at witnessed opioid overdoses.
METHODS: An observational prospective cohort study was performed by recruiting 
participants in the implementation of the S-O-S project, which was developed as 
part of the broader S-O-S initiative. Training included instruction on overdose 
responses and naloxone use. Study participants were followed for 6Â months after 
completing training. The primary study outcome was participants' naloxone use at 
witnessed overdoses, reported at follow-up.
FINDINGS: Between 400 and 417 S-O-S project participants were recruited in each 
country. Overall, 84% (1388/1646) of participants were interviewed at 6-month 
follow-up. The percentage who reported witnessing an overdose between baseline 
and follow-up was 20% (71/356) in Tajikistan, 33% (113/349) in Kyrgyzstan, 37% 
(125/342) in Ukraine and 50% (170/341) in Kazakhstan. The percentage who 
reported using naloxone at their most recently witnessed overdose was 82% 
(103/125) in Ukraine, 89% (152/170) in Kazakhstan, 89% (101/113) in Kyrgyzstan 
and 100% (71/71) in Tajikistan.
CONCLUSION: Implementation of the UNODC-WHO S-O-S training project in four low- 
to middle-income countries resulted in the reported use of take-home naloxone at 
around 90% of witnessed opioid overdoses. The percentage varied between 
countries but was generally higher than found in previous studies. Take-home 
naloxone is particularly important in countries where emergency medical 
responses to opioid overdoses may be limited.