OBJECTIVE: Invasively ventilated patients with acute respiratory failure related 
to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) potentially benefit from tracheostomy. 
The aim of this study was to determine the practice of tracheostomy during the 
first wave of the pandemic in 2020 in the Netherlands, to ascertain whether 
timing of tracheostomy had an association with outcome, and to identify factors 
that had an association with timing.
METHODS: Secondary analysis of the 'PRactice of VENTilation in COVID-19' 
(PRoVENT-COVID) study, a multicenter observational study, conducted from March 
1, 2020 through June 1, 2020 in 22 Dutch intensive care units (ICU) in the 
Netherlands. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients receiving 
tracheostomy; secondary endpoints were timing of tracheostomy, duration of 
ventilation, length of stay in ICU and hospital, mortality, and factors 
associated with timing.
RESULTS: Of 1023 patients, 189 patients (18.5%) received a tracheostomy at 
median 21 [17 to 28] days from start of ventilation. Timing was similar before 
and after online publication of an amendment to the Dutch national guidelines on 
tracheostomy focusing on COVID-19 patients (21 [17-28] vs. 21 [17-26] days). 
Tracheostomy performed â‰¤ 21 days was independently associated with shorter 
duration of ventilation (median 26 [21 to 32] vs. 40 [34 to 47] days) and higher 
mortality in ICU (22.1% vs. 10.2%), hospital (26.1% vs. 11.9%) and at day 90 
(27.6% vs. 14.6%). There were no patient demographics or ventilation 
characteristics that had an association with timing of tracheostomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Tracheostomy was performed late in COVID-19 patients during the 
first wave of the pandemic in the Netherlands and timing of tracheostomy 
possibly had an association with outcome. However, prospective studies are 
needed to further explore these associations. It remains unknown which factors 
influenced timing of tracheostomy in COVID-19 patients.