BACKGROUND: Since the introduction of the combination treatment of 
anti-programmed death-ligand 1 antibody atezolizumab and anti-VEGF antibody 
bevacizumab (AB), median overall survival in HCC has drastically improved. 
However, evidence on the efficacy and safety of the novel treatment standard in 
patients with prior exposure to systemic treatment is scarce. The aim of this 
global, multicenter, observational study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety 
of AB in patients after previous systemic therapy.
METHODS: We screened our global, multicenter, prospectively maintained registry 
database for patients who received any systemic therapy before AB. The primary 
end point was overall survival; secondary end points were time-to-progression, 
progression-free survival, objective response rate, and safety (rate and 
severity of adverse events).
RESULTS: Among 493 patients who received AB for unresectable HCC, 61 patients 
received prior systemic therapy and were included in this analysis. The median 
age of the study population was 66 years, with 91.8% males. Predominant risk 
factors for HCC were viral hepatitis (59%) and alcohol (23%). Overall survival 
for AB was 16.2 (95% CI, 14.5-17.9) months, time-to-progression and 
progression-free survival were 4.1 (95% CI, 1.5-6.6) and 3.1 (95% CI, 1.1-5.1) 
months, respectively. The objective response rate was 38.2% (7.3% with complete 
and 30.9% with partial response). Overall survival was not influenced by 
treatment line (2nd vs. >2nd) or previous systemic treatment modality (tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors vs. immune checkpoint inhibitors). Treatment-related adverse 
events of all grades according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
were documented in 42.6% of patients, with only 13.1% of grade â‰¥3, including one 
death.
CONCLUSION: In this observational study, AB emerges as a safe and efficacious 
treatment option in patients with HCC previously treated with other systemic 
therapy.