Context. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of 
chronic liver disease in children. There is no epidemiological data on rates of 
pediatric NAFLD in Canada. Primary care physicians (PCPs) are often the first 
contact healthcare professionals to manage potential pediatric patients with 
NAFLD. Objective: Evaluate patterns of screening and identification of pediatric 
NAFLD in Canadian primary care using administrative health care database. Study 
Design: Cross-sectional observational study. Dataset: The Canadian Primary Care 
Sentinel Surveillance Network (CPCSSN), a repository of clinical electronic 
medical record data drawn from primary care practices across Canada. Population 
Studied: Children aged 9-18 years old between July 1, 2018 and December 31, 
2019. Outcome Measures: The proportion of children eligible for screening 
(BMI≥95th percentile) as per NASPGHAN guidelines using ALT levels. Logistic 
Regression was used to evaluate the predictors for screening. Suspected NAFLD 
was defined as elevated ALT (>22 U/L for girls and > 26 U/L for boys) in the 
absence of viral hepatitis, metabolic conditions, alcohol use, hepatotoxic 
medications. Results: The study sample consisted of 66,872 children, of which 
15.8% (n=10,539) had a BMI≥95th percentile and only 10.1% (n=1,067/10539) were 
screened in the last year using ALT. Children were more likely to get screened 
if they were a) older (13-18 year vs 9-12 year, OR=1.63, 95% CI 1.38-1.93); b) 
living in an urban setting (OR=1.34, 95% CI 1.0-1.63); and c) had a higher BMI 
(≥99th percentile vs 95th-98th, OR=1.34, 95% CI 1.14, 1.56). We identified 855 
cases of suspected NAFLD, most children (78.5%) were older (13-18 years), male 
(55.0%), and lived in an urban setting (71.5%). A significant proportion (40.4%) 
had a BMI in the 99th percentile and 60.3% had at least one comorbidity, and 
35.9% were prescribed a psychotropic, antidiabetic or antihypertensive 
medications. Only 19.9% were referred to a specialist (pediatrician, 
gastroenterologist). Conclusions: This is the first study to estimate the 
screening patterns of pediatric NAFLD in primary care in Canada at a national 
level. The study revealed low screening rates in primary care, these results 
will help facilitate prioritization of care and future work that could evaluate 
successful implementation strategies while emphasizing the role of PCPs in 
screening and managing pediatric NAFLD in Canadian health care setting.