BACKGROUND: In the emergency department (ED) definitive diagnosis of SARS-COV-2 
pneumonia is challenging as nasopharyngeal swab (NPS) can give false negative 
results. Strategies to reduce false negative rate of NPS have limitations. 
Serial NPSs (24-48Â h from one another) are time-consuming, sputum can not be 
collected in the majority of patients, and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), the 
most sensitive test, requires specific expertise. Laryngotracheal aspiration 
(LTA) is easy to perform and showed a similar accuracy to BAL for diagnosis of 
other pulmonary diseases, however it was not studied to diagnose SARS-COV-2 
pneumonia.
OBJECTIVE: An observational cross-sectional study was performed to evaluate the 
negative predictive value of LTA in patients with suspected SARS-COV-2 pneumonia 
despite a negative NPS.
METHODS: In the EDs of two university hospitals, consecutive patients with 
suspected SARS-COV-2 pneumonia despite a negative NPS underwent LTA performed 
with a nasotracheal tube connected to a vacuum system. Final diagnosis based on 
all respiratory specimen tests (NPS, LTA and BAL) and hospital data was 
established by two reviewers and in case of discordance by a third reviewer.
RESULTS: 117 patients were enrolled. LTA was feasible in all patients and no 
patients experienced adverse events. Fifteen (12.7%) patients were diagnosed 
with community-acquired SARS-COV-2 pneumonia: 13 LTA positive and only 2 (1.7%) 
LTA negative. The negative predictive value of NPS and LTA was 87.3% (79.9% - 
92.7%) and 98.1% (93.3%99.8%) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: LTA resulted feasible, safe and reduced false negative rate in 
patients with suspected SARS-COV-2 pneumonia despite a negative NPS.