OBJECTIVE: Describe how people with lower limb spasticity present for treatment 
in routine clinical practice.
METHODS: Prospective, observational study (Clinicaltrials.gov: NCT04050527) of 
ambulatory adult patients (≥ 18 years) with unilateral lower limb spasticity 
(able to take ≥ 5 steps with or without assistance) presenting for routine 
spasticity management, including treatment with abobotulinumtoxinA.
RESULTS: The study population included 430 adults with lower limb spasticity. 
Despite their relatively young age (mean ± standard deviation 53.7 ± 13.9 
years), only 20% of patients were employed. Most patients had an acquired brain 
injury due to cerebrovascular disease; 84.1% reported having concomitant upper 
limb spasticity. Using the Leg Activity Measure, most patients reported no or 
only mild difficulties in performing hygiene/positioning tasks, while 80.7% had 
at least mild difficulty with indoor ambulation and 90.5% had at least mild 
difficulty with walking outdoors. Sensory, communication and/or cognitive 
impairments were also common. At the first treatment cycle, 50.7% of patients 
set active function primary goals, including locomotion transferring or 
standing.
CONCLUSION: These observations highlight the complexity of presentation that 
must be considered when setting treatment goals for lower limb spasticity and 
emphasize the types of impairment and activity (functional) limitations that 
treating teams may expect to encounter in their patients and should cover in 
their initial and follow-up assessments.