BACKGROUND: While the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting people's well-being 
worldwide, it may place a particularly high burden on people with chronic pain, 
as pain is known to be influenced by societal and psychological conditions.
METHODS: In this observational study, we conducted telephone interviews with 196 
patients with chronic pain to assess the impact of the pandemic on various 
aspects of their pain and everyday life. The initial interviews were conducted 
between April and May 2020 and were followed up by a second interview between 
August and December 2020.
RESULTS: A substantial percentage of patients (39% at the first and 32% at the 
second interview) reported an increase in pain intensity due to the pandemic. 
Exploratory analyses revealed that patients who already suffered from greater 
pain and who experienced greater restrictions due to the pandemic were more 
likely to express pain worsening. Psychological factors such as negative 
expectations about the development of their pain and pain treatment and a high 
external locus of control were also associated with increases in pain.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings illustrate the complexity of chronic pain, 
suggesting that not only the impact of the pandemic on various areas of life but 
also the severity of the pain-symptoms themselves and psychological factors 
influence the course of patients' symptoms during the pandemic.
SIGNIFICANCE: This study underlines the importance of psychosocial factors in 
chronic pain and demonstrates that the societal and psychological impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic can affect patients' pain and their ability to cope with it. 
The extent to which patients experience pain aggravation seems to interact with 
other psychological factors such as pain expectations and control beliefs.