PURPOSE: Prior research has shown a significant relationship between 6-minute 
walking distance (6MWD) and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients 
with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, few studies have 
examined this relationship above and below the 350-m threshold that 
prognosticates survival and whether serum biomarkers could provide insight into 
the causes of quality-of-life differences above and below this threshold.
METHODS: Measures of lung function, 6MWD, and HRQOL were compared in patients 
with COPD. Differences in HRQOL domains and serum biomarkers were compared in 
patients whose 6MWD were > or < 350 m.
RESULTS: In patients walking < 350 m, scores in the physical domains of the 
SF-36 and the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) were significantly 
different from scores of their counterparts with greater 6MWD. However, there 
was no association between any biomarkers and the physical domains of the SF-36 
and the SGRQ. In patients walking < 350 m, only the IL-8 levels were associated 
with lower scores in SF-36 domains of emotional role, pain, vitality, and mental 
health (average r = -0.702; P = .01). In contrast, in patients walking > 350 m, 
surfactant protein D levels were associated with higher SF-36 scores in general 
pain, vitality, and social functioning (average r = 0.42; P = .04).
CONCLUSIONS: In COPD, there is an association between 6MWD and the physical 
domains of the SF-36 and SGRQ in those patients walking < 350 m. The physical 
differences between patients walking < or > 350 m are not related to systemic 
inflammation. The association between interleukin 8 with nonphysical domains in 
patients with 6MWD < 350 m suggests that inflammation may play a larger role in 
the perceptive domain than previously recognized.