BACKGROUND: Multimorbidity is common in women across the life course. Preterm 
birth is the single biggest cause of neonatal mortality and morbidity. We aim to 
estimate the prevalence of multimorbidity in pregnant women and to examine the 
association between maternal multimorbidity and PTB.
METHODS: This is a retrospective cohort study using electronic health records 
from the Scottish Morbidity Records. All pregnancies among women aged 15 to 49 
with a conception date between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2018 were 
included. Multimorbidity was defined as the presence of two or more pre-existing 
long-term physical or mental health conditions, and complex multimorbidity as 
the presence of four or more. It was calculated at the time of conception using 
a predefined list of 79 conditions published by the MuM-PreDiCT consortium. PTB 
was defined as babies born alive between 24 and less than 37 completed weeks of 
gestation. We used Generalised Estimating Equations adjusted for maternal age, 
socioeconomic status, number of previous pregnancies, BMI, and smoking history 
to estimate the effect of maternal pre-existing multimorbidity. Absolut rates 
are reported in the results and tables, whilst Odds Ratios (ORs) are adjusted 
(aOR).
RESULTS: Thirty thousand five hundred fifty-seven singleton births from 27,711 
pregnant women were included in the analysis. The prevalence of pre-existing 
multimorbidity and complex multimorbidity was 16.8% (95% CI: 16.4-17.2) and 3.6% 
(95% CI: 3.3-3.8), respectively. The prevalence of multimorbidity in the 
youngest age group was 10.2%(95% CI: 8.8-11.6), while in those 40 to 44, it was 
21.4% (95% CI: 18.4-24.4), and in the 45 to 49 age group, it was 20% (95% CI: 
8.9-31.1). In women without multimorbidity, the prevalence of PTB was 6.7%; it 
was 11.6% in women with multimorbidity and 15.6% in women with complex 
multimorbidity. After adjusting for maternal age, socioeconomic status, number 
of previous pregnancies, Body Mass Index (BMI), and smoking, multimorbidity was 
associated with higher odds of PTB (aOR = 1.64, 95% CI: 1.48-1.82).
CONCLUSIONS: Multimorbidity at the time of conception was present in one in six 
women and was associated with an increased risk of preterm birth. Multimorbidity 
presents a significant health burden to women and their offspring. Routine and 
comprehensive evaluation of women with multimorbidity before and during 
pregnancy is urgently needed.