INTRODUCTION: Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) correlate with colonic transit 
time (CTT) and may influence irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) pathophysiology. 
However, the clinical significance of fecal SCFAs, relationships between SCFAs 
and other metabolites (bile acids [BAs]), and real-time diet effects on SCFAs in 
IBS are uncertain. The aim was to evaluate fecal SCFA associations with IBS 
phenotype and mechanisms and explore effects of real-time diet.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective observational study of fecal SCFA, BAs, and 
CTT in healthy controls (HCs) and participants with IBS. We compared study end 
points across groups, analyzed relationships between end points, and evaluated 
the discriminative ability of SCFAs. Diet effects were explored in participants 
with dietary data.
RESULTS: Among 21 HCs and 43 participants with IBS, fecal SCFAs (total, 
individual) were inversely correlated with overall (all P < 0.01) and segmental 
(all P < 0.05) CTT; similar associations were observed within HC and IBS groups. 
The acetate-to-butyrate ratio correlated with slower overall and left CTT in all 
and in HCs (both P < 0.01). SCFAs (total, acetate) correlated with BAs (total, % 
primary) in all participants and in those with IBS with diarrhea. Logistic 
regression analyses demonstrated associations of acetate with slower transit 
(odds ratio = 0.988, P = 0.002) and BA diarrhea (BAD; odds ratio = 1.014, P = 
0.001). Acetate accurately predicted delayed CTT (area under the receiving 
operating characteristic curve = 0.84) and BAD (area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve = 0.79). Adjusting for diet strengthened 
correlations of total SCFAs with overall CTT ( R = [-0.46], P = 0.04) and SCFAs 
with transverse CTT (all P < 0.05).
DISCUSSION: Fecal SCFAs correlate with CTT and fecal BAs and reliably exclude 
delayed CTT and BAD. Accounting for diet strengthens SCFA associations with 
transit.