INTRODUCTION: Forty-seven percent of all adults in the US have a diagnosis of 
high blood pressure. Among all US emergency department (ED) users, an estimated 
45% have high blood pressure. The success of high blood pressure interventions 
in reducing ED visits is partially predicated on patients' adherence to 
treatment plans. One method for promoting adherence to treatment plans is shared 
decision-making between patients and medical providers.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional observational study using 2015-2019 
Medical Expenditure Panel Survey data. We used studies on shared decision-making 
as a guide to create a predictor variable for shared decision-making. We 
determined covariates according to the Andersen Behavioral Model of Health 
Services Use. ED use was the outcome variable. We used cross tabulation to 
compare covariates of ED use and multivariable logistical regression to assess 
the association between shared decision-making and ED use. Our sample size was 
30,407 adults.
RESULTS: Less than half (39.3%) of respondents reported a high level of shared 
decision-making; 23.3% had 1 or more ED visits. In the unadjusted model, 
respondents who reported a high level of shared decision-making were 20% less 
likely than those with a low level of shared decision-making to report 1 or more 
ED visits (odds ratio [OR], 0.80; 95% CI, 0.75-0.86; P <.001). After adjusting 
for covariates, a high level of shared decision-making was still associated with 
lower odds of ED use (OR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.76-0.97; P = .01).
CONCLUSION: Shared decision-making may be an effective method for reducing ED 
use among patients with high blood pressure.