OBJECTIVE: To compare secondary patient reported outcomes of perceptions of 
treatment success and function for patients treated for appendicitis with 
appendectomy vs. antibiotics at 30 days.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: The Comparison of Outcomes of antibiotic Drugs and 
Appendectomy trial found antibiotics noninferior to appendectomy based on 30-day 
health status. To address questions about outcomes among participants with lower 
socioeconomic status, we explored the relationship of sociodemographic and 
clinical factors and outcomes.
METHODS: We focused on 4 patient reported outcomes at 30 days: high decisional 
regret, dissatisfaction with treatment, problems performing usual activities, 
and missing >10 days of work. The randomized (RCT) and observational cohorts 
were pooled for exploration of baseline factors. The RCT cohort alone was used 
for comparison of treatments. Logistic regression was used to assess 
associations.
RESULTS: The pooled cohort contained 2062 participants; 1552 from the RCT. 
Overall, regret and dissatisfaction were low whereas problems with usual 
activities and prolonged missed work occurred more frequently. In the RCT, those 
assigned to antibiotics had more regret (Odd ratios (OR) 2.97, 95% Confidence 
intervals (CI) 2.05-4.31) and dissatisfaction (OR 1.98, 95%CI 1.25-3.12), and 
reported less missed work (OR 0.39, 95%CI 0.27-0.56). Factors associated with 
function outcomes included sociodemographic and clinical variables for both 
treatment arms. Fewer factors were associated with dissatisfaction and regret.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, participants reported high satisfaction, low regret, and 
were frequently able to resume usual activities and return to work. When 
comparing treatments for appendicitis, no single measure defines success or 
failure for all people. The reported data may inform discussions regarding the 
most appropriate treatment for individuals.