BACKGROUND: During the COVID-19 pandemic, migrants arriving in host countries 
irregularly have not infrequently been perceived as increasing the COVID-19 
burden. Italy is a transit and destination country for migrants who cross the 
Central Mediterranean route and, during the pandemic, all migrants who landed on 
Italian shores were COVID-19 tested and quarantined. Our study aimed to 
investigate the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 infection among migrants who landed on 
the Italian coasts by analyzing both incidence and health outcomes.
METHODS: A retrospective observational study has been designed. The population 
of interest was represented by 70,512 migrants (91% male, 99% <60 years old) who 
landed in Italy between January 2021 and 2022. SARS-CoV-2 incidence rate per 
1,000 (with 95%CI) in migrants and the resident population in Italy of the 
corresponding age group was computed. The incidence rate ratio (IRR) was used to 
compare the incidence rates in migrants and the resident population.
RESULTS: 2,861 migrants out of those landed in Italy during the observation 
period tested positive, with an incidence rate of 40.6 (39.1-42.1) cases per 
1,000. During the same period, 177.6 (177.5-177.8) cases per 1,000 were reported 
in the resident population, with an IRR of 0.23 (0.22-0.24). 89.7% of cases were 
male and 54.6% belonged to the 20-29 age group. 99% of cases reported no 
symptoms, no relevant comorbidities were reported and no cases were 
hospitalized.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study found a low rate of SARS-CoV-2 infection in migrants 
reaching Italy by sea with an incidence rate that is roughly a quarter of that 
of the resident population. Thus, irregular migrants who arrived in Italy during 
the observation period did not increase the COVID-19 burden. Further studies are 
needed to investigate possible reasons for the low incidence observed in this 
population.