OBJECTIVE: To test the predictive accuracy of ACE screening for later health 
problems.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This study comprised 2 birth cohorts: the 
Environmental Risk (E-Risk) Longitudinal Twin Study observed 2232 participants 
born during the period from 1994 to 1995 until they were aged 18 years 
(2012-2014); the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study observed 
1037 participants born during the period from 1972 to 1973 until they were aged 
45 years (2017-2019). Statistical analysis was performed from May 28, 2018, to 
July 29, 2020.
EXPOSURES: ACEs were measured prospectively in childhood through repeated 
interviews and observations in both cohorts. ACEs were also measured 
retrospectively in the Dunedin cohort through interviews at 38 years.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Health outcomes were assessed at 18 years in E-Risk 
and at 45 years in the Dunedin cohort. Mental health problems were assessed 
through clinical interviews using the Diagnostic Interview Schedule. Physical 
health problems were assessed through interviews, anthropometric measurements, 
and blood collection.
RESULTS: Of 2232 E-Risk participants, 2009 (1051 girls [52%]) were included in 
the analysis. Of 1037 Dunedin cohort participants, 918 (460 boys [50%]) were 
included in the analysis. In E-Risk, children with higher ACE scores had greater 
risk of later health problems (any mental health problem: relative risk, 1.14 
[95% CI, 1.10-1.18] per each additional ACE; any physical health problem: 
relative risk, 1.09 [95% CI, 1.07-1.12] per each additional ACE). ACE scores 
were associated with health problems independent of other information typically 
available to clinicians (ie, sex, socioeconomic disadvantage, and history of 
health problems). However, ACE scores had poor accuracy in predicting an 
individual's risk of later health problems (any mental health problem: area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve, 0.58 [95% CI, 0.56-0.61]; any 
physical health problem: area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, 
0.60 [95% CI, 0.58-0.63]; chance prediction: area under the receiver operating 
characteristic curve, 0.50). Findings were consistent in the Dunedin cohort 
using both prospective and retrospective ACE measures.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study suggests that, although ACE scores can 
forecast mean group differences in health, they have poor accuracy in predicting 
an individual's risk of later health problems. Therefore, targeting 
interventions based on ACE screening is likely to be ineffective in preventing 
poor health outcomes.