BACKGROUND: Vaccine hesitancy and lack of access remain major issues in 
disseminating COVID-19 vaccination to liver patients globally. Factors 
predicting poor response to vaccination and risk of breakthrough infection are 
important data to target booster vaccine programs. The primary aim of the 
current study was to measure humoral responses to 2 doses of COVID-19 vaccine. 
Secondary aims included the determination of factors predicting breakthrough 
infection.
METHODS: COVID-19 vaccination and Biomarkers in cirrhosis And post-Liver 
Transplantation is a prospective, multicenter, observational case-control study. 
Participants were recruited at 4-10 weeks following first and second vaccine 
doses in cirrhosis [n = 325; 94% messenger RNA (mRNA) and 6% viral vaccine], 
autoimmune liver disease (AILD) (n = 120; 77% mRNA and 23% viral vaccine), 
post-liver transplant (LT) (n = 146; 96% mRNA and 3% viral vaccine), and healthy 
controls (n = 51; 72% mRNA, 24% viral and 4% heterologous combination). 
Serological end points were measured, and data regarding breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 
infection were collected.
RESULTS: After adjusting by age, sex, and time of sample collection, anti-Spike 
IgG levels were the lowest in post-LT patients compared to cirrhosis (p < 
0.0001), AILD (p < 0.0001), and control (p = 0.002). Factors predicting reduced 
responses included older age, Child-Turcotte-Pugh B/C, and elevated IL-6 in 
cirrhosis; non-mRNA vaccine in AILD; and coronary artery disease, use of 
mycophenolate and dysregulated B-call activating factor, and lymphotoxin-Î± 
levels in LT. Incident infection occurred in 6.6%, 10.6%, 7.4%, and 15.6% of 
cirrhosis, AILD, post-LT, and control, respectively. The only independent factor 
predicting infection in cirrhosis was low albumin level.
CONCLUSIONS: LT patients present the lowest response to the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. 
In cirrhosis, the reduced response is associated with older age, stage of liver 
disease and systemic inflammation, and breakthrough infection with low albumin 
level.