BACKGROUND: Rheumatic immune-related adverse events (R-irAEs) occur in 5-15% of 
patients receiving immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) and, unlike other irAEs, 
tend to be chronic. Herein, we investigate the factors influencing cancer and 
R-irAEs outcomes with particular focus on adverse effects of anti-inflammatory 
treatment.
METHODS: In this prospective, multicenter, long-term, observational study, 
R-irAEs were comprehensively analyzed in patients with malignant melanoma (MM, 
n=50) and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC, n=41) receiving ICI therapy who 
were enrolled in the study between August 1, 2018, and December 11, 2022.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 33 months, progressive disease or death 
occurred in 66.0% and 30.0% of MM and 63.4% and 39.0% of patients with NSCLC. 
Male sex (progression-free survival (PFS): p=0.013, and overall survival (OS): 
p=0.009), flare of a pre-existing condition (vs de novo R-irAE, PFS: p=0.010) 
and in trend maximum glucocorticoid (GC) doses >10 mg and particularly ≥1 mg/kg 
prednisolone equivalent (sex-adjusted PFS: p=0.056, OS: p=0.051) were associated 
with worse cancer outcomes. Patients receiving disease-modifying antirheumatic 
drugs (DMARDs) showed significantly longer PFS (n=14, p=0.011) and OS (n=20, 
p=0.018). Effects of these variables on PFS and/or OS persisted in adjusted Cox 
regression models. Additionally, GC treatment negatively correlated with the 
time from diagnosis of malignancy and the latency from ICI start until R-irAE 
onset (all p<0.05). R-irAE features and outcomes were independent of other 
baseline patient characteristics in both studied cancer entities.
CONCLUSION: Male sex, flare of pre-existing rheumatologic conditions and 
extensive GC treatment appeared to be linked with unfavorable cancer outcomes, 
while DMARD use had a favorable impact. These findings challenge the current 
dogma of restrictive DMARD use for R-irAE and thus may pave the way to better 
strategies and randomized controlled trials for the growing number of patients 
with R-irAE.