BACKGROUND: We aimed to evaluate the ability of diaphragmatic excursion at 
hospital admission to predict outcomes in patients with coronavirus disease-2019 
(COVID-19).
METHODS: In this prospective observational study, we included adult patients 
with severe COVID-19 admitted to a tertiary hospital. Ultrasound examination of 
the diaphragm was performed within 12â€‰h of admission. Other collected data 
included peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), respiratory rate, and computed 
tomography (CT) score. The outcomes included the ability of diaphragmatic 
excursion, respiratory rate, SpO2, and CT score at admission to predict the need 
for ventilatory support (need for non-invasive or invasive ventilation) and 
patient mortality using the area under the receiver operating characteristic 
curve (AUC) analysis. Univariate and multivariable analyses about the need for 
ventilatory support and mortality were performed.
RESULTS: Diaphragmatic excursion showed an excellent ability to predict the need 
for ventilatory support, which was the highest among respiratory rate, SpO2, and 
CT score; the AUCs (95% confidence interval [CI]) was 0.96 (0.85-1.00) for the 
right diaphragmatic excursion and 0.94 (0.82-0.99) for the left diaphragmatic 
excursion. The right diaphragmatic excursion also had the highest AUC for 
predicting mortality in relation to respiratory rate, SpO2, and CT score. 
Multivariable analysis revealed that low diaphragmatic excursion was an 
independent predictor of mortality with an odds ratio (95% CI) of 0.55 
(0.31-0.98).
CONCLUSION: Diaphragmatic excursion on hospital admission can accurately predict 
the need for ventilatory support and mortality in patients with severe COVID-19. 
Low diaphragmatic excursion was an independent risk factor for in-hospital 
mortality.