AIMS: The impact of long-term endurance sport participation (on top of a healthy 
lifestyle) on coronary atherosclerosis and acute cardiac events remains 
controversial.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The Master@Heart study is a well-balanced prospective 
observational cohort study. Overall, 191 lifelong master endurance athletes, 191 
late-onset athletes (endurance sports initiation after 30 years of age), and 176 
healthy non-athletes, all male with a low cardiovascular risk profile, were 
included. Peak oxygen uptake quantified fitness. The primary endpoint was the 
prevalence of coronary plaques (calcified, mixed, and non-calcified) on computed 
tomography coronary angiography. Analyses were corrected for multiple 
cardiovascular risk factors. The median age was 55 (50-60) years in all groups. 
Lifelong and late-onset athletes had higher peak oxygen uptake than non-athletes 
[159 (143-177) vs. 155 (138-169) vs. 122 (108-138) % predicted]. Lifelong 
endurance sports was associated with having ≥1 coronary plaque [odds ratio (OR) 
1.86, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.17-2.94], ≥ 1 proximal plaque (OR 1.96, 95% 
CI 1.24-3.11), ≥ 1 calcified plaques (OR 1.58, 95% CI 1.01-2.49), ≥ 1 calcified 
proximal plaque (OR 2.07, 95% CI 1.28-3.35), ≥ 1 non-calcified plaque (OR 1.95, 
95% CI 1.12-3.40), ≥ 1 non-calcified proximal plaque (OR 2.80, 95% CI 
1.39-5.65), and ≥1 mixed plaque (OR 1.78, 95% CI 1.06-2.99) as compared to a 
healthy non-athletic lifestyle.
CONCLUSION: Lifelong endurance sport participation is not associated with a more 
favourable coronary plaque composition compared to a healthy lifestyle. Lifelong 
endurance athletes had more coronary plaques, including more non-calcified 
plaques in proximal segments, than fit and healthy individuals with a similarly 
low cardiovascular risk profile. Longitudinal research is needed to reconcile 
these findings with the risk of cardiovascular events at the higher end of the 
endurance exercise spectrum.