Quadriceps atrophy and morphological change is a known phenomenon that can 
impact significantly on strength and functional performance in patients with 
acute or chronic presentations conditions. Real-time ultrasound (RTUS) imaging 
is a noninvasive valid and reliable method of quantifying quadriceps muscle 
anatomy and architecture. To date, there is a paucity of normative data on the 
architectural properties of superficial and deep components of the quadriceps 
muscle group to inform assessment and evaluation of intervention programs. The 
aims of this study were to (1) quantify the anatomical architectural properties 
of the quadriceps muscle group (rectus femoris, vastus intermedius, and vastus 
lateralis) using RTUS in healthy older adults and (2) to determine the 
relationship between RTUS muscle parameters and measures of quadriceps muscle 
strength. Thirty middle aged to older males and females (age range 55-79 years; 
mean age =59.9 ± 7.08 years) were recruited. Quadriceps muscle thickness, 
cross-sectional area, pennation angle, and echogenicity were measured using 
RTUS. Quadriceps strength was measured using hand-held dynamometry. For the 
RTUS-derived quadriceps morphological data, rectus femoris mean results; 
circumference 9.3 cm; CSA 4.6 cm2 ; thickness 1.5 cm; echogenicity 100.2 pixels. 
Vastus intermedius mean results; thickness 1.8 cm; echogenicity 99.1 pixels. 
Vastus lateralis thickness 1.9 cm; pennation angle 17.3°; fascicle length 
7.0 cm. Quadriceps force was significantly correlated only with rectus femoris 
circumference (r = 0.48, p = 0.007), RF echogenicity (r = 0.38, p = 0.037), VI 
echogenicity (r = 0.43, p = 0.018), and VL fascicle length (r = 0.43, 
p = 0.019). Quadriceps force was best predicted by a three-variable model 
(adjusted R2  = 0.46, p < 0.001) which included rectus femoris echogenicity 
(B = 0.43, p = 0.005), vastus lateralis fascicle length (B = 0.33, p = 0.025) 
and rectus femoris circumference (B = 0.31, p = 0.041). Thus respectively, 
rectus femoris echogenicity explains 43%, vastus lateralis fascicle length 
explains 33% and rectus femoris circumference explains 31% of the variance of 
quadriceps force. The study findings suggest that RTUS measures were reliable 
and further research is warranted to establish whether these could be used as 
surrogate measures for quadriceps strength in adults to inform exercise and 
rehabilitation programs.