BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) including Crohn's disease (CD) and 
ulcerative colitis (UC), are associated with higher thrombotic risk and enhanced 
thrombin generation (TG) in adults. Despite encouraging data reporting vaccine 
safety and low IBD flare rates in adults with IBD, vaccine hesitancy was 
demonstrated to be high in families of children with IBD. We aimed to find out 
whether TG is increased in children with IBD as compared to healthy controls and 
whether TG parameters show significant changes following SARS-CoV-2 mRNA 
vaccination.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this observational case-control study, 38 children with 
IBD (CD:18, UC: 20) aged 12-18 years and 62 healthy age-and sex-matched children 
were enrolled. Blood was collected before the first dose and 2-6 weeks after the 
second dose of BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNTech) mRNA vaccine dose. Blood cell counts, 
fibrinogen, inflammatory markers (hsCRP, ferritin), anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody 
levels were investigated, TG assay was carried-out using platelet-poor plasma. 
Detailed clinical parameters including disease activity scores (PUCAI, PCDAI) 
were registered pre-and post- vaccination. A guided questionnaire was used to 
collect data on adverse reactions (AEs) post- vaccination.
RESULTS: Baseline TG parameters did not differ between patients and controls. 
Endogenous thrombin potential showed a significant positive correlation with 
markers of inflammation and with PCDAI. Inflammatory parameters and TG did not 
increase in patients and controls post-vaccination. Vaccination significantly 
increased antibody levels in all three investigated groups, but post-vaccination 
anti-SARS-CoV-2 S IgG/IgM levels were below the 5th percentile value of healthy 
children in more than one third of patients. Those receiving TNFÎ± inhibitor 
therapy presented significantly lower SARS-CoV-2 S IgG/IgM levels as compared to 
patients on other immunosuppressive regimens. Systemic AEs did not differ 
between patients and controls while lower rate of local symptoms was found 
post-vaccination in children with IBD. Only 2 IBD flares were detected 2-6 weeks 
after the second dose of vaccination.
CONCLUSION: Our study is the first to support the safety and efficacy of 
anti-SARS-CoV-2 BNT162b2 vaccination in children with IBD with detailed pre-and 
post-vaccination laboratory data including TG. Results of this study may further 
increase confidence and reduce vaccine hesitancy in caretakers of pediatric IBD 
patients.