INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Critically-ill elderly ICU patients with COVID-19 
have poor outcomes. We aimed to compare the rates of in-hospital mortality 
between non-elderly and elderly critically-ill COVID-19 ventilated patients, as 
well as to analyze the characteristics, secondary outcomes and independent risk 
factors associated with in-hospital mortality of elderly ventilated patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a multicentre, observational cohort study 
including consecutive critically-ill patients admitted to 55 Spanish ICUs due to 
severe COVID-19 requiring mechanical ventilation (non-invasive respiratory 
support [NIRS; include non-invasive mechanical ventilation and high-flow nasal 
cannula] and invasive mechanical ventilation [IMV]) between February 2020 and 
October 2021.
RESULTS: Out of 5,090 critically-ill ventilated patients, 1,525 (27%) were aged 
≥70 years (554 [36%] received NIRS and 971 [64%] received IMV. In the elderly 
group, median age was 74 years (interquartile range 72-77) and 68% were male. 
Overall in-hospital mortality was 31% (23% in patients <70 years and 50% in 
those ≥70 years; p<0.001). In-hospital mortality in the group ≥70 years 
significantly varied according to the modality of ventilation (40% in NIRS vs. 
55% in IMV group; p<0.001). Factors independently associated with in-hospital 
mortality in elderly ventilated patients were age (sHR 1.07 [95%CI 1.05-1.10], 
p<0.001); previous admission within the last 30 days (sHR 1.40 [95%CI 
1.04-1.89], p = 0.027); chronic heart disease (sHR 1.21 [95%CI 1.01-1.44], 
p = 0.041); chronic renal failure (sHR 1.43 [95%CI 1.12- 1.82], p = 0.005); 
platelet count (sHR 0.98 [95% CI 0.98-0.99], p<0.001); IMV at ICU admission (sHR 
1.41 [95% CI 1.16- 1.73], p<0.001); and systemic steroids (sHR 0.61 [95%CI 0.48- 
0.77], p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Amongst critically-ill COVID-19 ventilated patients, those aged 
≥70 years presented significantly higher rates of in-hospital mortality than 
younger patients. Increasing age, previous admission within the last 30 days, 
chronic heart disease, chronic renal failure, platelet count, IMV at ICU 
admission and systemic steroids (protective) all comprised independent factors 
for in-hospital mortality in elderly patients.