INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of polysubstance use is well described, but less is 
known about correlates and patterns of polysubstance use. Previous research 
characterized latent subgroups of substance users by the type substance used. 
Racial disparities in the prevalence of polysubstance use exist, particularly 
for American Indian/Alaska Native (AI/AN) populations. The objective of our 
study was to describe differences in patterns of polysubstance use between 
non-Hispanic white and AI/AN adolescents.
METHODS: We obtained data from the 2013 Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS). We 
analyzed substance use patterns (cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, cocaine, 
inhalants, heroin, methamphetamines, ecstasy, steroids, and injected drugs) 
separately among 375 AI/AN and 15,633 non-Hispanic white adolescents. We 
calculated pairwise correlations. Exploratory factor analysis identified latent 
factors of polysubstance use patterns.
RESULTS: The use of all substances by AI/AN adolescents was the same or higher 
than use by non-Hispanic white adolescents, particularly for cocaine, heroin, 
and steroids. We found strong correlations between use of heroin and injected 
drugs and between use of cocaine and ecstasy among both populations. We found a 
latent factor for cigarettes, alcohol, and marijuana and another factor for 
broad polysubstance use among both populations. We found a factor for steroids 
and injected drugs among AI/AN adolescents, a factor for cocaine and ecstasy 
among non-Hispanic white adolescents, and a unique factor for methamphetamines.
CONCLUSION: Differences in substance use patterns exist between AI/AN and 
non-Hispanic white adolescents, particularly for illegal drug use. If validated 
in future research, information on these differences could be used to inform 
tailored intervention programs aimed at preventing substance use.