Fibromyalgia and opioid use disorder (OUD) are highly impactful chronic 
illnesses with substantially overlapping psychosocial, biological, and clinical 
features. Little previous research has examined interactions between 
fibromyalgia and OUD. Limiting such research has been the previous requirement 
of a clinical examination to diagnose fibromyalgia. The 2011 American College of 
Rheumatology Fibromyalgia Survey (ACR-FMS) is a validated self-report instrument 
with high sensitivity and specificity for fibromyalgia intended to enable 
fibromyalgia research in settings where a clinical examination is impractical. 
The present observational study uses the ACR-FMS to determine whether 
fibromyalgia affects odds of acknowledging pain-related OUD exacerbations among 
a sample of participants with pain and OUD. Participants with pain and OUD (n = 
125) were recruited from an academic substance use treatment facility. The 
ACR-FMS, along with an original scale measuring pain-related OUD 
exacerbation-the Pain-related OUD Exacerbation Scale-was administered through an 
electronic survey. The factor structure, internal consistency, and construct 
validity of Pain-related OUD Exacerbation Scale were tested. In addition, 
descriptive analyses, multiple hierarchical linear regression, ordinal logistic 
regression, and multinomial logistic regression analyses were performed. 
Although all participants had pain, those with fibromyalgia demonstrated 
significantly greater odds of acknowledging pain-related OUD exacerbations. 
Pain-related OUD Exacerbation Scale was found to have a single-factor solution, 
strong internal consistency, and construct validity. This study provides first 
evidence of fibromyalgia as a risk factor for pain-related exacerbation of OUD 
and introduces a new scale with promising psychometric properties to measure 
pain-related OUD exacerbation.