OBJECTIVE: The aim with the present study was to evaluate the association 
between pubertal body mass index (BMI) change and adult coronary artery 
calcification (CAC) score and risk of acute coronary events. APPROACH AND 
RESULTS: We included 37 672 men from the BMI Epidemiology Study and calculated 
their pubertal BMI change (BMI at 20 years−BMI at 8 years). Coronary artery 
computed tomography analysis of CAC score, midlife BMI, and major risk factors 
for coronary heart disease were available for a sub-cohort through linkage with 
the SCAPIS (Swedish Cardio Pulmonary Bioimage Study) cohort (n=922). Information 
on first acute coronary events was retrieved from Swedish national registers 
(n=37 672, events n=1873). Pubertal BMI change (odds ratio per SD increase, 1.32 
[1.14–1.52]), but not childhood BMI, was associated with middle age CAC score 
≥1. This association for pubertal BMI change was maintained after adjustment for 
midlife BMI at CAC analysis and in a model including major cardiovascular risk 
factors. Individuals who became overweight during puberty (hazard ratio, 2.11 
[1.79–2.49]), but not those overweight at 8 years who normalized their weight 
during puberty, had substantially increased risk of acute coronary events 
compared with men who were never overweight. Among subjects with an acute 
coronary event, individuals with pubertal onset overweight were at increased 
risk of death due to the event. CONCLUSIONS: Pubertal BMI change is an 
independent predictor of CAC score and risk of acute coronary events in adult 
men. Excessive BMI increase during puberty may initiate the coronary 
atherosclerotic process, thereby increasing the risk and severity of adult acute 
coronary events.