AIMS: An observational nationwide all-comers prospective register study to 
analyse outcomes after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI) in unprotected left main coronary artery (LMCA) 
disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: All patients undergoing coronary angiography in Sweden are 
registered in the Swedish Web-system for Enhancement and Development of 
Evidence-based care in Heart disease Evaluated According to Recommended 
Therapies registry. Between 01/01/2005 and 12/31/2015, 11 137 patients with LMCA 
disease underwent CABG (n = 9364) or PCI (n = 1773). Patients with previous 
CABG, ST-elevation myocardial infarction (MI) or cardiac shock were excluded. 
Death, MI, stroke, and new revascularization during follow-up until 12/31/2015 
were identified using national registries. Cox regression with inverse 
probability weighting (IPW) and an instrumental variable (IV), administrative 
region, were used. Patients undergoing PCI were older, had higher prevalence of 
comorbidity but lower prevalence of three-vessel disease. PCI patients had 
higher mortality than CABG patients after adjustments for known cofounders with 
IPW analysis (hazard ratio [HR] 2.0 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.5-2.7]) and 
known/unknown confounders with IV analysis (HR 1.5 [95% CI 1.1-2.0]). PCI was 
associated with higher incidence of major adverse cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular events (MACCE; death, MI, stroke, or new revascularization) than 
CABG, with IV analysis (HR 2.8 [95% CI 1.8-4.5]). There was a quantitative 
interaction for diabetic status regarding mortality (P = 0.014) translating into 
3.6 years (95% CI 3.3-4.0) longer median survival time favouring CABG in 
patients with diabetes.
CONCLUSION: In this non-randomized study, CABG in patients with LMCA disease was 
associated with lower mortality and fewer MACCE compared to PCI after 
multivariable adjustment for known and unknown confounders.