Neuropathic pain has long-term consequences in affective and cognitive 
disturbances, suggesting the involvement of supraspinal mechanisms. In this 
study, we used the spared nerve injury (SNI) model to characterize the 
development of sensory and aversive components of neuropathic pain and to 
determine their electrophysiological impact across prefrontal cortex and limbic 
regions. Moreover, we evaluated the regulation of several genes involved in 
immune response and inflammation triggered by SNI. We showed that SNI led to 
sensorial hypersensitivity (cold and mechanical stimuli) and depressive-like 
behavior lasting 12 months after nerve injury. Of interest, changes in 
nonemotional cognitive tasks (novel object recognition and Y maze) showed in 
1-month SNI mice were not evident normal in the 12-month SNI animals. In vivo 
electrophysiology revealed an impaired long-term potentiation at prefrontal 
cortex-nucleus accumbens core pathway in both the 1-month and 12-month SNI mice. 
On the other hand, a reduced neural activity was recorded in the lateral 
entorhinal cortex-dentate gyrus pathway in the 1-month SNI mice, but not in the 
12-month SNI mice. Finally, we observed the upregulation of specific genes 
involved in immune response in the hippocampus of 1-month SNI mice, but not in 
the 12-month SNI mice, suggesting a neuroinflammatory response that may 
contribute to the SNI phenotype. These data suggest that distinct brain circuits 
may drive the psychiatric components of neuropathic pain and pave the way for 
better investigation of the long-term consequences of peripheral nerve injury 
for which most of the available drugs are to date unsatisfactory.