PURPOSE: To examine the relationship between changes in retinal blood flow and 
the recurrence of macular edema in eyes with branch retinal vein occlusion.
METHODS: This observational study included 32 eyes in 32 patients (18 men and 14 
women) with branch retinal vein occlusion who visited the Department of 
Ophthalmology at Kyoto University Hospital (February 2021-November 2021). At the 
time of inclusion in the study, each patient underwent optical coherence 
tomography angiography on a macular area measuring 4 Ã— 4 mm 2 . For variable 
interscan time analysis, different interscan times were set at 7.6 (IST 7.6 ) 
and 20.6 ms (IST 20.6 ) for the optical coherence tomography angiography. The 
parafoveal vessel densities were measured sectorally at IST 7.6 and IST 20.6 , 
and their relationship with the longitudinal changes evident in the retinal 
thicknesses during the variable interscan time analysis examination and 2 months 
later was evaluated.
RESULTS: The parafoveal vessel densities in the affected sector was 
significantly greater at IST 20.6 than at IST 7.6 ( P = 0.011). At 2 months 
after the variable interscan time analysis examination, 6 patients (19%) showed 
recurrence of macular edema involving the fovea. The difference in the 
parafoveal vessel densities (IST 20.6 - IST 7.6 ) in the affected sector was 
significantly associated with longitudinal retinal thickening in the 
corresponding parafovea ( P = 0.020) and fovea ( P = 0.014).
CONCLUSION: In eyes with branch retinal vein occlusion, optical coherence 
tomography angiography variable interscan time analysis facilitated the 
detection of retinal blood flow changes that might be predictive for the 
recurrence of macular edema.