BACKGROUND: Massage therapy is a popular intervention for those suffering 
osteoarthritis, however, there is a paucity of evidence to support its 
effectiveness in osteoarthritis. A simple measure that could potentially assess 
the benefits of massage treatment is walking speed which is a predictor of 
mobility and survival length, particularly in ageing populations. The primary 
aim of the study was to assess the feasibility of using a phone app to measure 
walking ability in people with osteoarthritis.
METHODS: This feasibility study used a prospective, observational design to 
collect data from massage practitioners and their clients over a 5-week period. 
Feasibility outcomes included practitioner and client recruitment and protocol 
compliance. The app MapMyWalk was used to record average speed for each walk. 
Pre-study surveys and post-study focus groups were conducted. Clients received 
massage therapy in a massage clinic and were instructed to walk in their own 
local community for 10Â min every other day. Focus group data were analysed 
thematically. Qualitative data from clients' pain and mobility diaries were 
reported descriptively. Average walking speeds were graphed for each participant 
in relation to massage treatments.
RESULTS: Fifty-three practitioners expressed interest in the study, 13 completed 
the training, with 11 successfully recruiting 26 clients, 22 of whom completed 
the study. 90% of practitioners collected all required data. A strong motivation 
for participating practitioners was to contribute to evidence for massage 
therapy. Client compliance with using the app was high, but low for completing 
pain and mobility diaries. Average speed remained unchanged for 15 (68%) clients 
and decreased for seven (32%). Maximum speed increased for 11 (50%) clients, 
decreased for nine (41%) and remained unchanged for two (9%). However, data 
retrieved from the app were unreliable for walking speed.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that it is feasible to recruit massage 
practitioners and their clients for a study involving mobile/wearable technology 
to measure changes in walking speed following massage therapy. The results 
support the development of a larger randomised clinical trial using 
purpose-built mobile/wearable technology to measure the medium and long-term 
effects of massage therapy on people with osteoarthritis.