PURPOSE: To describe a case series of a special subtype of punctate inner 
choroidopathy with solitary lesions in the macular area and named solitary 
punctate chorioretinitis.
METHODS: This retrospective observational study clinically evaluated 12 eyes 
from 12 patients diagnosed as punctate inner choroidopathy with solitary 
lesions. Demographic data and multimodal imaging features were analyzed for the 
included patients.
RESULTS: All the included patients were Chinese and of Han ethnicity. The median 
age of the included patients was 29.5 years (range: 25-40 years). Most patients 
(11/12, 91.67%) were myopic, with median refraction errors of -4.4 diopters (D) 
(range: -8.5 to 0 D). Solitary chorioretinitis lesions were yellowâ€’white and 
appeared hyperfluorescent during the entire phase of fundus fluorescein 
angiography without leakage (9/12, 75%) and hypofluorescent on indocyanine green 
angiography (11/11, 100%). On spectral domain optical coherence tomography, 
active inflammatory lesions appeared as isolated, heterogeneous, moderately 
reflective material at the outer retina (10/12, 83.33%) in the fovea or 
parafoveal region with disruption of the outer retinal layers. When the 
inflammatory lesions regressed, the moderately reflective materials in the outer 
retina were absorbed or regressed with outer retinal tissue loss. Additional 
sequelae of lesion regression included focal choroidal excavation and 
intraretinal cystoid space. Secondary choroidal neovascularization was noticed 
in 2 eyes (2/12, 16.67%).
CONCLUSION: Solitary punctate chorioretinitis is a rare and unique subtype of 
punctate inner choroidopathy. Solitary punctate chorioretinitis may also be an 
unrecognized etiology of some forms of focal choroidal excavation and idiopathic 
choroidal neovascularization.