INTRODUCTION: The role of the kappa-free light chain (kFLC) in the diagnosis of 
multiple sclerosis (MS) and, to a lesser extent, its role as a medium-term 
prognostic marker have been extensively studied. This study aimed to explore its 
potential as a long-term prognostic marker for MS.
METHODS: We performed an exploratory retrospective observational study by 
selecting patients systemically followed up in our MS unit with available 
cerebrospinal fluid and serum samples at the time of initial evaluation. Two 
groups were defined: benign MS (bMS), defined as patients with Expanded 
Disability Status Scale (EDSS) ≤ 3 at 10 years of follow-up, and aggressive MS 
(aMS), defined as patients with EDSS ≥ 6 at 15 years of follow-up. Clinical 
variables were collected, and the immunoglobulin G (IgG) index, kFLC index, and 
oligoclonal bands (OCB) were determined for all patients and compared between 
the groups.
RESULTS: Twenty bMS and 15 aMS patients were included in this study. Sixty 
percent (21/35) were female, and the mean age at the time of the first symptom 
was 31.5 ± 9.45 years, with no statistical differences between groups. Median 
follow-up time was 19.8 years (Interquartile range, IQR 15.9-24.6). The median 
EDSS scores at the last follow-up were 1.5 and 7.5 in the bMS and the aMS group, 
respectively. No statistically significant differences were found in the kFLC 
index between the two groups (136.6 vs. 140.27, p=0.59). The IgG index was 
positive in 62.9% of patients (55% bMS vs. 73.3% aMS, p>0.05), and OCB was 
positive in 88.6% (90% bMS vs. 86.7% aMS, p>0.05). A significant positive 
correlation was found between IgG and kFLC indices (rs = 0.85, p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Given the absence of differences between the two groups with 
opposite disease courses, it is unlikely that the kFLC index is a reliable and 
powerful marker of long-term prognosis in MS.