INTRODUCTION: Expert opinion suggests that efforts to address childhood obesity 
should seek to transform the environments in which children operate. The 
objective of this study was to describe the extent to which multisetting 
programs and policies interact with community and child predictors and are 
associated with child body mass index (BMI) in the 130 US communities 
participating in the Healthy Communities Study.
METHODS: For 2 years beginning in fall 2013, we collected data through key 
informant interviews on community programs and policies related to healthy 
weight among children that occurred in the 10 years before the interview. We 
characterized community programs and policies by intensity of efforts and the 
number of settings in which a program or policy was implemented. Child height 
and weight were measured during household data collection. We used multilevel 
modeling to examine associations of community programs and policies in multiple 
settings and child and community predictors with BMI z scores of children.
RESULTS: The mean number of settings in which community policies and programs 
were implemented was 7.3 per community. Of 130 communities, 31 (23.8%) 
implemented community programs and policies in multiple settings. 
Higher-intensity community programs and policies were associated with lower BMI 
in communities that used multiple settings but not in communities that 
implemented programs and policies in few settings.
CONCLUSION: Efforts to prevent childhood obesity may be more effective when 
community programs and policies are both intensive and are implemented in 
multiple settings in which children live, learn, and play.