An elevated risk of myeloma precursor disease, monoclonal gammopathy of 
undetermined significance (MGUS), was identified among Fire Department of the 
City of New York (FDNY) World Trade Center (WTC)-exposed firefighters. Further 
investigation was needed to determine if these findings were reproducible in a 
more heterogeneous WTC-exposed rescue/recovery workers cohort, the Stony Brook 
University-General Responder Cohort GRC (SBU-GRC). MGUS risk was compared 
between the cohorts and to published general population estimates from Olmsted 
County, MN, USA. In this observational seroprevalence study, odds ratios (OR) 
and age-standardized risk ratios (RR) of MGUS (M-spike and light-chain-MGUS 
combined), M-spike, and light-chain-MGUS were estimated using logistic 
regression. Age-standardized prevalences were calculated for white males aged 
50-79; RRs were estimated by comparing risk in the WTC-exposed cohort with the 
Olmsted County screened cohort. SBU-GRC had elevated odds of MGUS compared with 
FDNY (OR = 1.38; 95%CI = 1.00-1.89). The age-standardized prevalence of MGUS was 
9.0/100 persons (95%CI = 7.5-10.6), over two-fold higher than the general 
population (RR = 2.08; 95%CI = 1.72-2.51); the age-standardized prevalence of 
light-chain-MGUS was 3.5-fold higher (RR = 3.54; 95%CI = 2.52-4.97). This study 
adds to mounting evidence supporting an association between WTC/environmental 
exposures and MGUS among rescue/recovery workers. Access to MGUS screenings for 
the entire WTC-exposed cohort could allow for treatment interventions that 
improve survival.