BACKGROUND: Qingfei Paidu Tang (QPT), a formula of traditional Chinese medicine, 
which was suggested to be able to ease symptoms in patients with Coronavirus 
Disease 2019 (COVID-19), has been recommended by clinical guidelines and widely 
used to treat COVID-19 in China. However, whether it decreases mortality remains 
unknown.
PURPOSE: We aimed to explore the association between QPT use and in-hospital 
mortality among patients hospitalized for COVID-19.
STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective study based on a real-world database was 
conducted.
METHODS: We identified patients consecutively hospitalized with COVID-19 in 15 
hospitals from a national retrospective registry in China, from January through 
May 2020. Data on patients' characteristics, treatments, and outcomes were 
extracted from the electronic medical records. The association of QPT use with 
COVID-19 related mortality was evaluated using Cox proportional hazards models 
based on propensity score analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 8939 patients included, 28.7% received QPT. The COVID-19 related 
mortality was 1.2% (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.8% to 1.7%) among the 
patients receiving QPT and 4.8% (95% CI 4.3% to 5.3%) among those not receiving 
QPT. After adjustment for patient characteristics and concomitant treatments, 
QPT use was associated with a relative reduction of 50% in-hospital COVID-19 
related mortality (hazard ratio, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.37 to 0.66 p < 0.001). This 
association was consistent across subgroups by sex and age. Meanwhile, the 
incidences of acute liver injury (8.9% [95% CI, 7.8% to 10.1%] vs. 9.9% [95% CI, 
9.2% to 10.7%]; odds ratio, 0.96 [95% CI, 0.81% to 1.14%], p = 0.658) and acute 
kidney injury (1.6% [95% CI, 1.2% to 2.2%] vs. 3.0% [95% CI, 2.6% to 3.5%]; odds 
ratio, 0.85 [95% CI, 0.62 to 1.17], p = 0.318) were comparable between patients 
receiving QPT and those not receiving QPT. The major study limitations included 
that the study was an observational study based on real-world data rather than a 
randomized control trial, and the quality of data could be affected by the 
accuracy and completeness of medical records.
CONCLUSIONS: QPT was associated with a substantially lower risk of in-hospital 
mortality, without extra risk of acute liver injury or acute kidney injury among 
patients hospitalized with COVID-19.