INTRODUCTION: Primary immunodeficiency diseases (PIDs) are rare inherited 
diseases resulting in impaired immunity. People with PID experience lower 
health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) and disease-related burdens in daily 
activities. This ongoing, prospective observational study aims to evaluate 
disease activity, treatment status, treatment-related burden, daily activities, 
and HR-QOL in patients with PID in Japan over a 1-year period. In this interim 
report (database lock: July 29, 2022), we present baseline results.
METHODS: Participants were enrolled between November 2021 and May 2022; data 
were collected four times/year per participant until May 2023 using an online 
electronic patient-reported outcomes system. Patients with PID and healthy 
volunteers aged â‰¥12 years, residing in Japan, and with access to a smartphone 
were eligible. HR-QOL (primary endpoint) was assessed by the EuroQol-5 
Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) and the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form 
Health Survey (SF-36). Work productivity was assessed by the Work Productivity 
and Activity Impairment (WPAI) Questionnaire. Other aspects of PID and burden 
were assessed with a new questionnaire developed in-house. The study is 
registered at the University hospital Medical Information Network clinical 
trials registry (UMIN000045622).
RESULTS: The full interim analysis set comprised 71 patients with PID and 47 
healthy volunteers. The most common International Union of Immunological 
Societies PID category was primary antibody deficiency (56.3% of patients). 
Complications were common, especially recurrent respiratory tract infections 
(63.4%). Most patients with PID were treated with immunoglobulin replacement 
therapy (73.2%); 22.4% of these patients had serum immunoglobulin levels <700 
mg/dL. Among patients who did not undergo hematopoietic cell transplantation, 
EQ-5D-5L (n=67) and SF-36 (n=59) Physical and Mental Component Summary scores 
were significantly lower than in healthy volunteers (p < 0.001). WPAI 
absenteeism, work productivity loss, and activity impairment scores were 
significantly lower in 42 working patients with PID than in 37 working healthy 
volunteers (p < 0.05). Other results indicated that patients with PID experience 
substantial burdens related to medical visits, expenses, work, and daily 
activities.
DISCUSSION: This interim analysis confirms that patients with PID in Japan have 
lower HR-QOL and work productivity compared with healthy individuals and 
experience substantial limitations and burdens in their daily lives.