BACKGROUND: The present study was designed to describe the prevalence of 
norepinephrine use, the factors associated with its use, and the incidence of 
postoperative complications according to norepinephrine use, in patients 
undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.
METHOD: We performed a prospective, multicenter, observational study in 4 
University-affiliated medico-surgical cardiovascular units. We analyzed all 
patients treated with cardiac surgery after excluding pre-ECMO surgery, LVAD 
implantation, heart transplantation and intra-operative hemorrhage.
RESULTS: Of 9316 patients screened during the study period, 2862 were included 
and 2510 were analyzed. Among them, 1549 (61%) were treated with norepinephrine 
with a median maximal dose of 0.11 [0.06-0.2] μg.kg-1.min-1 and a median 
duration of 10 h [2-24]. Norepinephrine was most often started in the operating 
room before cardiopulmonary bypass. The multiple regression logistic analysis 
identified several modifiable (haematocrit, maintenance of beta-blocker, 
cardiopulmonary bypass time, glucose-insulin-potassium, Custodiol cardioplegia, 
Delnido cardioplegia, and fibrinogen transfusion) and non-modifiable factors 
(age, ASA score, chronic high blood pressure, coronary disease, dyslipidemia, 
right ventricular dysfunction, left ventricular dysfunction, active 
endocarditis, and valvular aortic surgery) associated with norepinephrine use. 
Mortality, morbidity (neurological and renal complications, death) and length of 
stay in the ICU were higher in patients treated with norepinephrine.
CONCLUSION: Norepinephrine is often used in cardiac surgical patients but for 
<24 h with a low dose. Many preoperative and surgical factors are associated 
with norepinephrine use. Patients supported by norepinephrine have a higher 
incidence of major postoperative events.