Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a severe birth defect that is often 
accompanied by other congenital anomalies. Previous exome sequencing studies for 
CDH have supported a role of de novo damaging variants but did not identify any 
recurrently mutated genes. To investigate further the genetics of CDH, we 
analyzed de novo coding variants in 362 proband-parent trios including 271 new 
trios reported in this study. We identified four unrelated individuals with 
damaging de novo variants in MYRF (P = 5.3x10(-8)), including one likely 
gene-disrupting (LGD) and three deleterious missense (D-mis) variants. Eight 
additional individuals with de novo LGD or missense variants were identified 
from our other genetic studies or from the literature. Common phenotypes of MYRF 
de novo variant carriers include CDH, congenital heart disease and genitourinary 
abnormalities, suggesting that it represents a novel syndrome. MYRF is a 
membrane associated transcriptional factor highly expressed in developing 
diaphragm and is depleted of LGD variants in the general population. All de novo 
missense variants aggregated in two functional protein domains. Analyzing the 
transcriptome of patient-derived diaphragm fibroblast cells suggest that disease 
associated variants abolish the transcription factor activity. Furthermore, we 
showed that the remaining genes with damaging variants in CDH significantly 
overlap with genes implicated in other developmental disorders. Gene expression 
patterns and patient phenotypes support pleiotropic effects of damaging variants 
in these genes on CDH and other developmental disorders. Finally, functional 
enrichment analysis implicates the disruption of regulation of gene expression, 
kinase activities, intra-cellular signaling, and cytoskeleton organization as 
pathogenic mechanisms in CDH.