OBJECTIVE: To compare the incidence of maternal near miss using the World Health 
Organization (WHO) near-miss tool and six other criteria sets, including 
criteria designed for low-resource settings or specifically for India.
METHODS: In a cohort study we used WHO severity indicators to identify women 
with potentially life-threatening conditions during pregnancy or childbirth 
admitted to a referral hospital in Puducherry, India, from May 2018 to April 
2021. We analysed sociodemographic, clinical and laboratory data for each woman 
and calculated the incidence of maternal near miss and other process indicators 
for each set of criteria.
FINDINGS: We analysed data on 37â€‰590 live births; 1833 (4.9%) women were 
identified with potentially life-threatening conditions, 380 women had severe 
maternal outcomes and 57 died. Applying the different sets of criteria to the 
same data, we found the incidence of maternal near miss ranged from 7.6 to 15.6 
per 1000 live births. Only the Global Network criteria (which exclude laboratory 
data that may not be available in low-resource settings) and the WHO criteria 
could identify all women who died. Applying the criterion of any number of units 
of blood transfusion increased the overall number of women identified with near 
miss.
CONCLUSION: The WHO and Global Network criteria may be used to detect maternal 
near miss in low-resource settings. Future studies could assess the usefulness 
of blood transfusion as an indicator for maternal near miss, especially in low- 
to middle-income countries where the indicator may not reflect severe maternal 
morbidity if the number of units received is not specified.