BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to examine whether 
the regional methylation levels at the most distal D4Z4 repeat units (RU) in the 
4qA-permissive haplotype were associated with disease severity and progression 
in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy type 1 (FSHD1).
METHODS: This 21-year, retrospective, observational cohort study was conducted 
at the Fujian Neuromedical Center (FNMC) in China. Methylation levels of the 
most distal D4Z4 RU, including 10 CpGs, were assessed in all participants by 
bisulfite sequencing. Patients with FSHD1 were stratified into 4 groups based on 
methylation percentage quartiles, including LM1 (low methylation), LM2 (low to 
intermediate methylation), LM3 (intermediate to high methylation), and highest 
methylation (HM) levels. Patients received evaluations of motor function 
focusing on lower extremity (LE) progression at baseline and in follow-ups. FSHD 
clinical score (CS), age-corrected clinical severity scale (ACSS), and modified 
Rankin scale were used to assess motor function.
RESULTS: The methylation levels of the 10 CpGs were significantly lower in all 
823 patients with genetically confirmed FSHD1 than in 341 healthy controls 
(HCs). CpG6 methylation levels could distinguish the following: (1) patients 
with FSHD1 from HCs; (2) symptomatic from asymptomatic/unaffected patients; (3) 
patients with LE involvement from those without LE involvement, with AUCs (95% 
CI) of 0.9684 (0.9584-0.9785), 0.7417 (0.6903-0.7931), and 0.6386 
(0.5816-0.6956), respectively. Lower CpG6 methylation levels were correlated 
with higher CS (r = -0.392), higher ACSS (r = -0.432), and earlier onset age of 
first-ever muscle weakness (r = 0.297). For the LM1, LM2, LM3, and HM groups, 
the respective proportions of LE involvement were 52.9%, 44.2%, 36.9%, and 
23.4%; and onset ages of LE involvement were 20, 26.5, 25, and 26.5 years. Cox 
regression analysis-adjusted for sex, age at examination, D4Z4 RU, and 4qA/B 
haplotype-showed that the LM1, LM2, and LM3 groups (i.e., groups with lower 
methylation levels) had a higher risk of independent ambulation loss, with HRs 
(95% CI) of 3.523 (1.565-7.930), 3.356 (1.458-7.727), and 2.956 (1.245-7.020), 
respectively.
DISCUSSION: 4q35 distal D4Z4 hypomethylation is correlated with disease severity 
and progression to lower extremity involvement.