Circulating RNAs extracted from liquid biopsies represent a promising source of 
cancer- and therapy-related biomarkers. We screened whole blood from patients 
with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) following their 
first-line treatment with abiraterone acetate and prednisone (AA-P) to identify 
circulating RNAs that may correlate with progression-free survival (PFS). In a 
prospective multicenter observational study, 53 patients with mCRPC were 
included after they started first-line AA-P treatment. Blood was drawn at 
baseline, 1, 3, and 6 months after treatment initiation. The levels of 
predefined circulating RNAs earlier identified as being upregulated in patients 
with mCRPC (e.g., microRNAs, long noncoding RNAs, and mRNAs), were analyzed. 
Uni- and multivariable Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier analyses were used to 
analyze the prognostic value of the various circulating RNAs for PFS along 
treatment. Detectable levels of kallikrein-related peptidase 3 (KLK3) mRNA at 
baseline were demonstrated to be an independent prognostic marker for PFS (201 
vs 501 days, P = 0.00054). Three months after AA-P treatment initiation, KLK3 
could not be detected in the blood of responding patients, but was still 
detectable in 56% of the patients with early progression. Our study confirmed 
that KLK3 mRNA detection in whole blood is an independent prognostic marker in 
mCRPC patients receiving AA-P treatment. Furthermore, the levels of circulating 
KLK3 mRNA in patients receiving AA-P treatment might reflect treatment response 
or early signs of progression.