AIMS: Calmodulinopathy due to mutations in any of the three CALM genes (CALM1-3) 
causes life-threatening arrhythmia syndromes, especially in young individuals. 
The International Calmodulinopathy Registry (ICalmR) aims to define and link the 
increasing complexity of the clinical presentation to the underlying molecular 
mechanisms.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The ICalmR is an international, collaborative, 
observational study, assembling and analysing clinical and genetic data on 
CALM-positive patients. The ICalmR has enrolled 140 subjects (median age 10.8 
years [interquartile range 5-19]), 97 index cases and 43 family members. 
CALM-LQTS and CALM-CPVT are the prevalent phenotypes. Primary neurological 
manifestations, unrelated to post-anoxic sequelae, manifested in 20 patients. 
Calmodulinopathy remains associated with a high arrhythmic event rate 
(symptomatic patients, n = 103, 74%). However, compared with the original 2019 
cohort, there was a reduced frequency and severity of all cardiac events (61% 
vs. 85%; P = .001) and sudden death (9% vs. 27%; P = .008). Data on therapy do 
not allow definitive recommendations. Cardiac structural abnormalities, either 
cardiomyopathy or congenital heart defects, are present in 30% of patients, 
mainly CALM-LQTS, and lethal cases of heart failure have occurred. The number of 
familial cases and of families with strikingly different phenotypes is 
increasing.
CONCLUSION: Calmodulinopathy has pleiotropic presentations, from channelopathy 
to syndromic forms. Clinical severity ranges from the early onset of 
life-threatening arrhythmias to the absence of symptoms, and the percentage of 
milder and familial forms is increasing. There are no hard data to guide 
therapy, and current management includes pharmacological and surgical 
antiadrenergic interventions with sodium channel blockers often accompanied by 
an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator.