AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Lifestyle interventions are the first-line treatment option for 
body weight and cardiometabolic health management. However, whether age groups 
or women and men respond differently to lifestyle interventions is under debate. 
We aimed to examine age- and sex-specific effects of a low-energy diet (LED) 
followed by a long-term lifestyle intervention on body weight, body composition 
and cardiometabolic health markers in adults with prediabetes (i.e. impaired 
fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance).
METHODS: This observational study used longitudinal data from 2223 overweight 
participants with prediabetes in the multicentre diabetes prevention study 
PREVIEW. The participants underwent a LED-induced rapid weight loss (WL) period 
followed by a 3 year lifestyle-based weight maintenance (WM) intervention. 
Changes in outcomes of interest in prespecified age (younger: 25-45 years; 
middle-aged: 46-54 years; older: 55-70 years) or sex (women and men) groups were 
compared.
RESULTS: In total, 783 younger, 319 middle-aged and 1121 older adults and 1503 
women and 720 men were included in the analysis. In the available case and 
complete case analyses, multivariable-adjusted linear mixed models showed that 
younger and older adults had similar weight loss after the LED, whereas older 
adults had greater sustained weight loss after the WM intervention (adjusted 
difference for older vs younger adults -1.25% [95% CI -1.92, -0.58], p<0.001). 
After the WM intervention, older adults lost more fat-free mass and bone mass 
and had smaller improvements in 2 h plasma glucose (adjusted difference for 
older vs younger adults 0.65 mmol/l [95% CI 0.50, 0.80], p<0.001) and systolic 
blood pressure (adjusted difference for older vs younger adults 2.57 mmHg [95% 
CI 1.37, 3.77], p<0.001) than younger adults. Older adults had smaller decreases 
in fasting and 2 h glucose, HbA1c and systolic blood pressure after the WM 
intervention than middle-aged adults. In the complete case analysis, the 
above-mentioned differences between middle-aged and older adults disappeared, 
but the direction of the effect size did not change. After the WL period, 
compared with men, women had less weight loss (adjusted difference for women vs 
men 1.78% [95% CI 1.12, 2.43], p<0.001) with greater fat-free mass and bone mass 
loss and smaller improvements in HbA1c, LDL-cholesterol and diastolic blood 
pressure. After the WM intervention, women had greater fat-free mass and bone 
mass loss and smaller improvements in HbA1c and LDL-cholesterol, while they had 
greater improvements in fasting glucose, triacylglycerol (adjusted difference 
for women vs men -0.08 mmol/l [-0.11, -0.04], p<0.001) and HDL-cholesterol.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Older adults benefited less from a lifestyle 
intervention in relation to body composition and cardiometabolic health markers 
than younger adults, despite greater sustained weight loss. Women benefited less 
from a LED followed by a lifestyle intervention in relation to body weight and 
body composition than men. Future interventions targeting older adults or women 
should take prevention of fat-free mass and bone mass loss into consideration.