OBJECTIVE: Arterial stiffness is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, 
including heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). MGP (matrix 
Gla protein) is implicated in vascular calcification in animal models, and 
circulating levels of the uncarboxylated, inactive form of MGP (ucMGP) are 
associated with cardiovascular disease-related and all-cause mortality in human 
studies. However, the role of MGP in arterial stiffness is uncertain. Approach 
and Results: We examined the association of ucMGP levels with vascular 
calcification, arterial stiffness including carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity 
(PWV), and incident heart failure in community-dwelling adults from the 
Framingham Heart Study. To further investigate the link between MGP and arterial 
stiffness, we compared aortic PWV in age- and sex-matched young (4-month-old) 
and aged (10-month-old) wild-type and Mgp+/- mice. Among 7066 adults, we 
observed significant associations between higher levels of ucMGP and measures of 
arterial stiffness, including higher PWV and pulse pressure. Longitudinal 
analyses demonstrated an association between higher ucMGP levels and future 
increases in systolic blood pressure and incident HFpEF. Aortic PWV was 
increased in older, but not young, female Mgp+/- mice compared with wild-type 
mice, and this augmentation in PWV was associated with increased aortic elastin 
fiber fragmentation and collagen accumulation.
CONCLUSIONS: This translational study demonstrates an association between ucMGP 
levels and arterial stiffness and future HFpEF in a large observational study, 
findings that are substantiated by experimental studies showing that mice with 
Mgp heterozygosity develop arterial stiffness. Taken together, these 
complementary study designs suggest a potential role of therapeutically 
targeting MGP in HFpEF.