BACKGROUND: Phelan McDermid syndrome (PMS) is a neurogenetic condition 
associated with a high prevalence of intellectual disability (ID) and autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD). This study provides a more comprehensive and 
quantitative profile of repetitive behaviors within the context of ID seen with 
the condition.
METHODS: Individuals age 3-21 years with a confirmed PMS diagnosis participated 
in a multicenter observational study evaluating the phenotype and natural 
history of the disorder. We evaluated data collected from this study pertaining 
to repetitive behaviors from the Repetitive Behavior Scales-Revised (RBS-R).
RESULTS: There were n = 90 participants who were part of this analysis. 
Forty-seven percent (n = 42/90) were female, and the average age at baseline 
evaluation was 8.88 ± 4.72 years. The mean best estimate IQ of the cohort was 
26.08 ± 17.67 (range = 3.4-88), with n = 8 with mild ID (or no ID), n = 20 with 
moderate ID, and n = 62 with severe-profound ID. The RBS-R total overall score 
was 16.46 ± 13.9 (compared to 33.14 ± 20.60 reported in previous studies of ASD) 
(Lam and Aman, 2007), and the total number of items endorsed was 10.40 ± 6.81 
(range = 0-29). After statistical correction for multiple comparisons, IQ 
correlated with the RBS-R stereotypic behavior subscale score (rs = - 0.33, 
unadjusted p = 0.0014, adjusted p = 0.01) and RBS-R stereotypic behavior total 
number of endorsed items (rs = - 0.32, unadjusted p = 0.0019, adjusted p = 
0.01). IQ did not correlate with any other RBS-R subscale scores.
CONCLUSIONS: The RBS-R total overall score in a PMS cohort appears milder 
compared to individuals with ASD characterized in previous studies. Stereotypic 
behavior in PMS may reflect cognitive functioning.