BACKGROUND: Birth weight (BW) is a strong predictor of neonatal outcomes. The 
purpose of this study was to compare BWs between global regions (south Asia, 
sub-Saharan Africa, Central America) prospectively and to determine if trends 
exist in BW over time using the population-based maternal and newborn registry 
(MNHR) of the Global Network for Women'sand Children's Health Research (Global 
Network).
METHODS: The MNHR is a prospective observational population-based registryof six 
research sites participating in the Global Network (2013-2018), within five low- 
and middle-income countries (Kenya, Zambia, India, Pakistan, and Guatemala) in 
threeglobal regions (sub-Saharan Af rica, south Asia, Central America). The 
birth weights were obtained for all infants born during the study period. This 
was done either by abstracting from the infants' health facility records or from 
direct measurement by the registry staff for infants born at home. After 
controlling for demographic characteristics, mixed-effect regression models were 
utilized to examine regional differences in birth weights over time.
RESULTS: The overall BW meanswere higher for the African sites (Zambia and 
Kenya), 3186 g (SD 463 g) in 2013 and 3149 g (SD 449 g) in 2018, ascompared to 
Asian sites (Belagavi and Nagpur, India and Pakistan), 2717 g (SD450 g) in 2013 
and 2713 g (SD 452 g) in 2018. The Central American site (Guatemala) had a mean 
BW intermediate between the African and south Asian sites, 2928 g (SD 452) in 
2013, and 2874 g (SD 448) in 2018. The low birth weight (LBW) incidence was 
highest in the south Asian sites (India and Pakistan) and lowest in the African 
sites (Kenya and Zambia). The size of regional differences varied somewhat over 
time with slight decreases in the gap in birth weights between the African and 
Asian sites and slight increases in the gap between the African and Central 
American sites.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, BWmeans by global region did not change significantly over 
the 5-year study period. From 2013 to 2018, infants enrolled at the African 
sites demonstrated the highest BW means overall across the entire study period, 
particularly as compared to Asian sites. The incidence of LBW was highest in the 
Asian sites (India and Pakistan) compared to the African and Central American 
sites.
