BACKGROUND: Balance disorders in patients diagnosed with Parkinson's disease 
(PD) are associated with a change in balance-keeping strategy and reflex 
disorders which regulate the maintenance of vertical body posture. Center of 
foot pressure (COP) displacement signals were analyzed during quiet standing 
experiments to define such changes. The research aimed to apply stock exchange 
indices based on the trend change analyses to the assessment of a level of the 
Parkinson disease progression on the grounds of the analysis of the COP signals.
METHODS: 30 patients in two stages of PD, 40 elderly participants, and 20 
individuals at a young age were studied. Each person was subjected to 3 
measurements with open and closed eyes. A technical analysis of the COP 
displacement signal was performed, and the following quantities were determined: 
indices related to the number of trend changes (TCI), indices defining a mean 
time (TCI_dT), and mean displacement (TCI_dS) and mean velocity (TCI_dV) between 
such changes.
RESULTS: The results indicate a higher TCI value for PD than for aged-matched 
control group (p < 0.05). In the case of PD patients, there was also an increase 
in the TCI_dS value by 2-5 mm, which mainly contributed to the increase in 
TCI_dV. Statistically significant differences for the TCI_dT values occurred 
between all groups in which differences in the average COP velocity were noted.
CONCLUSIONS: The TCI and TCI_dV results obtained for the healthy participants 
enabled the development of indices supporting PD diagnostics. The causes of the 
TCI_dV changes in patients were determined, i.e., whether they resulted from an 
increase in the TCI_dT or TCI_dS between the moments of trend changes indicated 
by the developed algorithm. The developed methodology provides new information 
on the impact of PD on the strategy of maintaining balance, which was impossible 
to obtain using currently used analyses.