1. Am J Surg Pathol. 2018 Jan;42(1):39-52. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000000948.

Whole Slide Imaging Versus Microscopy for Primary Diagnosis in Surgical 
Pathology: A Multicenter Blinded Randomized Noninferiority Study of 1992 Cases 
(Pivotal Study).

Mukhopadhyay S(1), Feldman MD(2), Abels E(3), Ashfaq R(4), Beltaifa S(5), 
Cacciabeve NG(5), Cathro HP(6), Cheng L(7), Cooper K(2), Dickey GE(5), Gill 
RM(8), Heaton RP Jr(5), Kerstens R(3), Lindberg GM(4), Malhotra RK(4), Mandell 
JW(6), Manlucu ED(5), Mills AM(6), Mills SE(6), Moskaluk CA(6), Nelis M(3), 
Patil DT(1), Przybycin CG(1), Reynolds JP(1), Rubin BP(1), Saboorian MH(4), 
Salicru M(4), Samols MA(5), Sturgis CD(1), Turner KO(4), Wick MR(6), Yoon JY(4), 
Zhao P(5), Taylor CR(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH.
(2)Department of Pathology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA.
(3)Philips Digital Pathology Solutions, Best, The Netherlands.
(4)Miraca Life Sciences, Irving, TX.
(5)Advanced Pathology Associates, Silver Spring, MD.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA.
(7)Department of Pathology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
IA.
(8)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Francisco.
(9)Department of Pathology, Keck School of Medicine University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA.

Comment in
    Am J Surg Pathol. 2018 Jun;42(6):841-842.

Most prior studies of primary diagnosis in surgical pathology using whole slide 
imaging (WSI) versus microscopy have focused on specific organ systems or 
included relatively few cases. The objective of this study was to demonstrate 
that WSI is noninferior to microscopy for primary diagnosis in surgical 
pathology. A blinded randomized noninferiority study was conducted across the 
entire range of surgical pathology cases (biopsies and resections, including 
hematoxylin and eosin, immunohistochemistry, and special stains) from 4 
institutions using the original sign-out diagnosis (baseline diagnosis) as the 
reference standard. Cases were scanned, converted to WSI and randomized. Sixteen 
pathologists interpreted cases by microscopy or WSI, followed by a wash-out 
period of â‰¥4 weeks, after which cases were read by the same observers using the 
other modality. Major discordances were identified by an adjudication panel, and 
the differences between major discordance rates for both microscopy (against the 
reference standard) and WSI (against the reference standard) were calculated. A 
total of 1992 cases were included, resulting in 15,925 reads. The major 
discordance rate with the reference standard diagnosis was 4.9% for WSI and 4.6% 
for microscopy. The difference between major discordance rates for microscopy 
and WSI was 0.4% (95% confidence interval, -0.30% to 1.01%). The difference in 
major discordance rates for WSI and microscopy was highest in endocrine 
pathology (1.8%), neoplastic kidney pathology (1.5%), urinary bladder pathology 
(1.3%), and gynecologic pathology (1.2%). Detailed analysis of these cases 
revealed no instances where interpretation by WSI was consistently inaccurate 
compared with microscopy for multiple observers. We conclude that WSI is 
noninferior to microscopy for primary diagnosis in surgical pathology, including 
biopsies and resections stained with hematoxylin and eosin, immunohistochemistry 
and special stains. This conclusion is valid across a wide variety of organ 
systems and specimen types.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000000948
PMCID: PMC5737464
PMID: 28961557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest and Source of Funding: 
Supported by Philips. E.A., R.K., and M.N. are employees of Philips. C.R.T. and 
M.D.F. are consultants to Philips for which they receive a personal 
remuneration. S.M., D.T.P., C.G.P., and C.D.S. received a personal remuneration 
for participating as readers in this study and have no other relationships with 
or financial interest in Philips. A.M.M., C.A.M., J.W.M., S.E.M., and H.P.C. 
report that they received compensation in the form of salary support from 
Philips for their participation in this study. All pathologists in the study 
completed a Financial Disclosure Form and Form FDA 3454. The remaining authors 
have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or financial 
interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article.