Safety of hepatitis E vaccination for pregnancy: a post-hoc analysis of a 
randomized, double-blind, controlled phase 3 clinical trial.

1/Special attention has been paid to Hepatitis E (HE) prophylaxis for pregnant 
women due to poor prognosis of HE in this population. We conducted a post-hoc 
analysis based on the randomized, double-blind, HE vaccine (Hecolin)-controlled 
phase 3 clinical trial of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine (Cecolin) conducted 
in China. 

2/Eligible healthy women aged 18-45 years were randomly assigned to 
receive three doses of Cecolin or Hecolin and were followed up for 66 months. 
All the pregnancy-related events throughout the study period were closely 
followed up. The incidences of adverse events, pregnancy complications, and 
adverse pregnancy outcomes were analysed based on the vaccine group, maternal 
age, and interval between vaccination and pregnancy onset. During the study 
period, 1263 Hecolin receivers and 1260 Cecolin receivers reported 1684 and 1660 
pregnancies, respectively. 

3/The participants in the two vaccine groups showed 
similar maternal and neonatal safety profiles, regardless of maternal age. Among 
the 140 women who were inadvertently vaccinated during pregnancy, the incidences 
of adverse reactions had no statistical difference between the two groups (31.8% 
vs 35.1%, p = 0.6782). The proximal exposure to HE vaccination was not 
associated with a significantly higher risk of abnormal foetal loss (OR 0.80, 
95% CI 0.38-1.70) or neonatal abnormality (OR 2.46, 95% CI 0.74-8.18) than that 
to HPV vaccination, as did distal exposure. Significant difference was not noted 
between pregnancies with proximal and distal exposure to HE vaccination. 

4/Conclusively, HE vaccination during or shortly before pregnancy is not 
associated with increased risks for both the pregnant women and pregnancy 
outcomes.
