BACKGROUND: Ageing populations and health-care staff shortages encourage efforts 
in primary care to recognise and prevent health deterioration and acute 
hospitalisation in community-dwelling older adults. The PATINA algorithm and 
decision-support tool alerts home-based-care nurses to older adults at risk of 
hospitalisation. The study aim was to test whether use of the PATINA tool was 
associated with changes in health-care use.
METHODS: An open-label, stepped-wedge, cluster-randomised controlled trial was 
done in three Danish municipalities, covering 20 area teams providing home-based 
care to around 7000 recipients. During a period of 12 months, area teams were 
randomly assigned to an intervention crossover for older adults (aged 65 years 
or older) who received care at home. The primary outcome was hospitalisation 
within 30 days of identification by the algorithm as being at risk of 
hospitalisation. Secondary outcomes were hospital readmission and other hospital 
contacts, outpatient contacts, contact with primary care physicians (PCPs), 
temporary care, and death, within 30 days of identification. This study was 
registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NTC04398797).
FINDINGS: In total, 2464 older adults participated in the study: 1216 (49·4%) in 
the control phase and 1248 (50·6%) in the intervention phase. In the control 
phase, 102 individuals were hospitalised within 30 days during 33 943 days of 
risk (incidence 0·09 per 30 days), compared with 118 individuals within 34 843 
days of risk (0·10 per 30 days) during the intervention phase. The intervention 
was not associated with a reduction in the number of first hospitalisations 
within 30 days (incidence rate ratio [IRR] 1·10 [90% CI 0·90-1·40]; p=0·28). 
Furthermore it was not associated with reduced rates of other hospital contacts 
(IRR 1·10 [95% CI 0·90-1·40]; p=0·28), outpatient contacts (1·10 [0·88-1·40]; 
p=0·42), or mortality (0·82 [0·58-1·20]; p=0·25). The intervention was 
associated with a 59% reduction in readmissions within 30 days of hospital 
discharge (IRR 0·41 [95% CI 0·24-0·68]; p=0·0007), a 140% increase in contacts 
with PCPs (2·40 [1·18-3·20]; p<0·0001), and a 150% increase in use of temporary 
care (2·50 [1·40-4·70]; p=0·0027).