BACKGROUND: Insecticide resistance among malaria-vector species is a pervasive 
problem that might jeopardise global disease-control efforts. Novel 
vector-control tools with different modes of action, including long-lasting 
insecticidal nets (LLINs) incorporating new active ingredients, are urgently 
needed to delay the evolution and spread of insecticide resistance. We aimed to 
measure phenotypic and genotypic insecticide-resistance profiles among wild 
Anopheles collected over 3 years to assess the longitudinal effects of 
dual-active-ingredient LLINs on insecticide resistance.
METHODS: For this analysis, data nested in a 3-year, four parallel-arm, 
superiority cluster-randomised controlled trial (cRCT) in Tanzania, collected 
from 84 clusters (39 307 households) formed of 72 villages in the Misungwi 
district, were used to measure insecticide-resistance profiles among female 
Anopheles mosquitoes via insecticide-resistance bioassays and quantitative 
RT-PCR of metabolic-resistance genes. Wild, blood-fed, indoor-resting mosquitoes 
were collected annually during the rainy seasons from house walls in clusters 
from all four trial groups. Mosquitoes were morphologically identified as An 
gambiae sensu lato (SL) or An funestus SL before separate bioassay testing. The 
primary outcomes were lethal-dose values for α-cypermethrin, permethrin, and 
piperonyl butoxide pre-exposure plus permethrin-resistance intensity bioassays, 
mortality 72 h after insecticidal exposure for chlorfenapyr bioassays, fertility 
reduction 72 h after insecticidal exposure for pyriproxyfen bioassays, and fold 
change in metabolic-enzyme expression relative to an insecticide-susceptible 
laboratory strain. All primary outcomes were measured in An funestus SL 1 year, 
2 years, and 3 years after LLIN distribution. Primary outcomes were also 
assessed in An gambiae SL if enough mosquitoes were collected. The cRCT is 
registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03554616).
FINDINGS: Between May 24, 2019, and Oct 25, 2021, 47 224 female Anopheles were 
collected for resistance monitoring. In the pyrethroid (PY)-LLIN group, there 
were significant increases in α-cypermethrin-resistance intensity (year 1 
LD50=9·52 vs year 2 76·20, p<0·0001) and permethrin-resistance intensity (year 1 
13·27 vs year 2 35·83, p=0·0019) in An funestus SL. In the pyriproxyfen PY-LLIN 
group, there was similar increase in α-cypermethrin-resistance intensity (year 1 
0·71 vs year 2 81·56, p<0·0001) and permethrin-resistance intensity (year 1 5·68 
vs year 2 50·14, p<0·0001). In the piperonyl butoxide PY-LLIN group, 
α-cypermethrin-resistance intensity (year 1 33·26 vs year 3 70·22, p=0·0071) and 
permethrin-resistance intensity (year 1 47·09 vs year 3 2635·29, p<0·0001) also 
increased over time. In the chlorfenapyr PY-LLIN group, there were no effects on 
α-cypermethrin-resistance intensity (year 1 0·42 vs year 3 0·99, p=0·54) or 
permethrin-resistance intensity (data were not estimable due to nearly 100% 
mortality). There were also minimal reductions in chlorfenapyr susceptibility. 
However, in the chlorfenapyr PY-LLIN group, a significant decline in 
piperonyl-butoxide synergy was seen by year 3 (year 1 0·02 vs year 3 0·26, 
p=0·020). Highly over-expressed detoxification enzymes showed dynamic patterns 
of selection throughout the trial.