Safety and efficacy of avalglucosidase alfa in individuals with infantile-onset 
Pompe disease enrolled in the phase 2, open-label Mini-COMET study: The 6-month 
primary analysis report.

1/PURPOSE: Mini-COMET (NCT03019406; Sanofi) is a phase 2, open-label, 
ascending-dose, 3-cohort study, evaluating avalglucosidase alfa safety, 
pharmacokinetics, and efficacy in individuals with infantile-onset Pompe disease 
aged <18 years who previously received alglucosidase alfa and showed clinical 
decline (cohorts 1 and 2) or suboptimal response (cohort 3).

2/METHODS: During a 25-week primary analysis period, cohorts 1 and 2 received 
avalglucosidase alfa 20 and 40 mg/kg every other week, respectively, for 6 
months, whereas cohort 3 individuals were randomized (1:1) to receive 
avalglucosidase alfa 40 mg/kg every other week or alglucosidase alfa (current 
stable dose) for 6 months.

3/RESULTS: In total, 22 individuals were enrolled (cohort 1 [n = 6], cohort 2 [n = 
5], cohort 3-avalglucosidase alfa [n = 5], and cohort 3-alglucosidase alfa [n = 
6]). Median treatment compliance was 100%. None of the individuals discontinued 
treatment or died. Percentages of individuals with treatment-emergent adverse 
events were similar across dose and treatment groups. No serious or severe 
treatment-related treatment-emergent adverse events occurred. Trends for better 
motor function from baseline to week 25 were observed for 40 mg/kg every other 
week avalglucosidase alfa compared with either 20 mg/kg every other week 
avalglucosidase alfa or alglucosidase alfa up to 40 mg/kg weekly.

4/CONCLUSION: These data support the positive clinical effect of avalglucosidase 
alfa in patients with infantile-onset Pompe disease previously declining on 
alglucosidase alfa.
