Impact of practice, provider and patient characteristics on delivering screening 
and brief advice for heavy drinking in primary healthcare: Secondary analyses of 
data from the ODHIN five-country cluster randomized factorial trial.

1/BACKGROUND: The implementation of primary healthcare-based screening and advice 
that is effective in reducing heavy drinking can be enhanced with training.
OBJECTIVES: Undertaking secondary analysis of the five-country ODHIN study, we 
test: the extent to which practice, provider and patient characteristics affect 
the likelihood of patients being screened and advised; the extent to which such 
characteristics moderate the impact of training in increasing screening and 
advice; and the extent to which training mitigates any differences due to such 
characteristics found at baseline.

2/METHODS: A cluster randomized factorial trial involving 120 practices, 746 
providers and 46 546 screened patients from Catalonia, England, the Netherlands, 
Poland, and Sweden. Practices were randomized to receive training or not to 
receive training. The primary outcome measures were the proportion of adult 
patients screened, and the proportion of screen-positive patients advised.

4/RESULTS: Nurses tended to screen more patients than doctors (OR = 3.1; 95%CI: 
1.9, 4.9). Screen-positive patients were more likely to be advised by doctors 
than by nurses (OR = 2.3; 95%CI: 1.4, 4.1), and more liable to be advised the 
higher their risk status (OR = 1.9; 95%CI: 1.3, 2.7). Training increased 
screening and advice giving, with its impact largely unrelated to practice, 
provider or patient characteristics. Training diminished the differences between 
doctors and nurses and between patients with low or high-risk status.

4/CONCLUSIONS: Training primary healthcare providers diminishes the negative 
impacts that some practice, provider and patient characteristics have on the 
likelihood of patients being screened and advised. Trial registration 
