Balneotherapy, a Complementary Non-pharmacological Approach for Non-Inflammatory 
Complaints in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus: A Pilot Study.

1/BACKGROUND/AIM: Despite remission or low disease activity non-inflammatory 
complaints like exhaustion, fatigue, and pain persist in a significant 
proportion of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and have a 
considerable impact on health-related quality of life. This study evaluated the 
effects of balneotherapy on non-inflammatory complaints, quality of life, and 
work productivity of patients with SLE.

2/PATIENTS AND METHODS: SLE patients in remission/low disease activity in three 
rheumatology centers were included in this randomized, controlled, follow-up 
study. In addition to the standard of care (SOC), sixteen out of the thirty 
patients with SLE received balneotherapy (3-week period, 15 times, for 30 min) 
and fourteen patients received the SOC only. Pre-validated survey instruments 
including Lupus Quality of Life (LupusQoL), Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), 
Work Productivity, and Activity Impairment-Lupus (WPAI-Lupus) questionnaires 
were used.

3/RESULTS: Based on the SF-36 questionnaires, several subdomains of physical 
condition improved significantly after the course; the improvement remained 
durable (p=0.019). General health improved significantly by the end of the 
course (p=0.001). According to the LupusQoL questionnaire, physical health and 
pain showed a tendency of improvement shortly after the spa treatment. Changes 
in the WPAI-lupus questionnaire indicated a short-term improvement of the daily 
activity by the end of the observation period. No adverse reactions were 
observed.

4/CONCLUSION: Thermal water therapy may be an effective, well-tolerated, 
complementary non-pharmacological approach for non-inflammatory complaints of 
patients with SLE. Physical condition improved in the short-term, whereas 
fatigue worsened despite treatment.
