BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) in 
improving health outcomes in cancer settings is unclear. We evaluated whether 
CGA can improve health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in older people with 
cancer who are starting systemic anticancer treatment.
METHODS: INTEGERATE is a multicentre, open-label, pragmatic, parallel-group, 
randomised controlled trial that was done at three hospitals in Australia. 
Participants aged 70 years and older with solid cancer or diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma planned for chemotherapy, targeted therapy, or immunotherapy, were 
randomly assigned (1:1; using a central computer-generated minimisation 
algorithm with a random element, balancing treatment intent, cancer type, age, 
sex, and performance status) to receive CGA integrated into oncology care 
(integrated oncogeriatric care) or usual care only. Group assignment was not 
concealed from the participants and clinicians. The primary outcome was HRQOL 
over 24 weeks, assessed at baseline, week 12, week 18, and week 24, using the 
Elderly Functional Index (ELFI; score range 0-100). Analyses were by intention 
to treat. The trial is registered with ANZCTR.org.au, ACTRN12614000399695, and 
is completed.
FINDINGS: Between Aug 18, 2014, and Sept 5, 2018, 154 participants were randomly 
assigned to integrated oncogeriatric care (n=76) or usual care (n=78). 13 
participants died by week 12 and 130 (92%) of the remaining 141 participants 
completed two or more ELFI assessments. Participants assigned to integrated 
oncogeriatric care reported better adjusted ELFI change scores over 24 weeks 
compared with those in the usual care group (overall main effect of group: 
t=2·1, df=213, p=0·039; effect size=0·38), with maximal between-group 
differences at week 18 (mean difference in change 9·8 [95% CI 2·4-17·2]; 
p=0·010, corrected p=0·030, effect size=0·48). The integrated oncogeriatric care 
group also had significantly fewer unplanned hospital admissions at 24 weeks 
(multivariable-adjusted incidence rate ratio 0·60 [95% CI 0·42-0·87]; p=0·0066). 
No statistically significant between-group difference was observed in overall 
survival.