BACKGROUND: VERTIS CV was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
parallel-group, multicentre cardiovascular outcomes trial that evaluated the 
cardiovascular efficacy and safety of ertugliflozin in adults with type 2 
diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The primary objective of 
VERTIS CV was to show non-inferiority of ertugliflozin to placebo with respect 
to the primary outcome, major adverse cardiovascular events (a composite of 
death from cardiovascular causes, non-fatal myocardial infarction, or non-fatal 
stroke). The analyses reported here aimed to assess cardiorenal outcomes, kidney 
function, and other safety outcomes with ertugliflozin in older adults with type 
2 diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease compared with younger 
participants.
METHODS: VERTIS CV was done at 567 centres in 34 countries. Participants (aged 
≥40 years) with type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease were 
randomly assigned (1:1:1) to once-daily ertugliflozin 5 mg, ertugliflozin 15 mg, 
or placebo in addition to background standard-of-care treatment. Random 
assignment was done with the use of an interactive voice-response system. The 
study outcomes were major adverse cardiovascular events, hospitalisation for 
heart failure or cardiovascular death, cardiovascular death, hospitalisation for 
heart failure, prespecified kidney composite outcomes, kidney function, and 
other assessments of safety. Cardiorenal outcomes, kidney function, and safety 
outcomes were evaluated by baseline age (≥65 years and <65 years [prespecified] 
and ≥75 years and <75 years [post hoc]). The study is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01986881.
FINDINGS: Between Dec 13, 2013, and July 31, 2015, and between June 1, 2016, and 
April 14, 2017, 8246 adults with type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease were recruited to the study and randomly assigned. 2752 
patients were assigned to ertugliflozin 5 mg, 2747 patients to ertugliflozin 15 
mg, and 2747 patients to placebo. 8238 participants received at least one dose 
of ertugliflozin 5 mg, ertugliflozin 15 mg, or placebo. 4145 (50·3%) of 8238 
participants were aged 65 years and older, including 903 (11·0%) participants 
aged 75 years and older. 5764 (70·0%) of 8238 participants were male and 2474 
(30·0%) were female, and 7233 (87·8%) of 8238 participants were White, 497 
(6·0%) were Asian, 235 (2·9%) were Black, and 273 (3·3%) were classified as 
other. The mean estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was lower and the 
type 2 diabetes duration longer for those aged 65 years and older versus those 
younger than 65 years, and for those aged 75 years and older versus those 
younger than 75 years. Cardiovascular outcomes were more common in the older age 
subgroups than in the younger age subgroups. Similar to the overall VERTIS CV 
cohort, ertugliflozin did not increase the risk of major adverse cardiovascular 
events, cardiovascular death or hospitalisation for heart failure, 
cardiovascular death alone, or the kidney composite outcome (using doubling of 
serum creatinine, dialysis or transplantation, or kidney death), and reduced the 
risk of hospitalisation for heart failure and the exploratory kidney composite 
outcome (using a 40% sustained eGFR decrease, dialysis or transplantation, or 
kidney death) in the older age subgroups (pinteraction>0·05 for outcomes 
assessed). A slower decline in eGFR and a smaller increase in the urine 
albumin-to-creatinine ratio were observed over time in all age subgroups taking 
ertugliflozin compared with placebo. Across age subgroups, safety outcomes were 
consistent with the known profile of ertugliflozin.