Trial of Antisense Oligonucleotide Tofersen for SOD1 ALS.

1/BACKGROUND: The intrathecally administered antisense oligonucleotide tofersen 
reduces synthesis of the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) protein and is being 
studied in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) associated with 
mutations in SOD1 (SOD1 ALS).

2/METHODS: In this phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned adults with SOD1 ALS in a 
2:1 ratio to receive eight doses of tofersen (100 mg) or placebo over a period 
of 24 weeks. The primary end point was the change from baseline to week 28 in 
the total score on the ALS Functional Rating Scale-Revised (ALSFRS-R; range, 0 
to 48, with higher scores indicating better function) among participants 
predicted to have faster-progressing disease. Secondary end points included 
changes in the total concentration of SOD1 protein in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 
in the concentration of neurofilament light chains in plasma, in slow vital 
capacity, and in handheld dynamometry in 16 muscles. A combined analysis of the 
randomized component of the trial and its open-label extension at 52 weeks 
compared the results in participants who started tofersen at trial entry 
(early-start cohort) with those in participants who switched from placebo to the 
drug at week 28 (delayed-start cohort).

3/RESULTS: A total of 72 participants received tofersen (39 predicted to have 
faster progression), and 36 received placebo (21 predicted to have faster 
progression). Tofersen led to greater reductions in concentrations of SOD1 in 
CSF and of neurofilament light chains in plasma than placebo. In the 
faster-progression subgroup (primary analysis), the change to week 28 in the 
ALSFRS-R score was -6.98 with tofersen and -8.14 with placebo (difference, 1.2 
points; 95% confidence interval [CI], -3.2 to 5.5; P = 0.97). Results for 
secondary clinical end points did not differ significantly between the two 
groups. A total of 95 participants (88%) entered the open-label extension. At 52 
weeks, the change in the ALSFRS-R score was -6.0 in the early-start cohort and 
-9.5 in the delayed-start cohort (difference, 3.5 points; 95% CI, 0.4 to 6.7); 
non-multiplicity-adjusted differences favoring early-start tofersen were seen 
for other end points. Lumbar puncture-related adverse events were common. 
Neurologic serious adverse events occurred in 7% of tofersen recipients.

4/CONCLUSIONS: In persons with SOD1 ALS, tofersen reduced concentrations of SOD1 
in CSF and of neurofilament light chains in plasma over 28 weeks but did not 
improve clinical end points and was associated with adverse events. The 
potential effects of earlier as compared with delayed initiation of tofersen are 
being further evaluated in the extension phase. 