BACKGROUND: Knee arthroplasty (KA) is increasingly performed in relatively 
young, active patients. This heterogeneous patient population often has high 
expectations, including work resumption and performance of knee-demanding 
leisure-time activities. Goal attainment scaling (GAS) may personalize 
rehabilitation by using patient-specific, activity-oriented rehabilitation 
goals. Since unmet expectations are a leading cause of dissatisfaction after KA, 
personalized rehabilitation may improve patient satisfaction. We hypothesized 
that, compared with standard rehabilitation, GAS-based rehabilitation would 
result in younger, active patients having higher satisfaction regarding 
activities after KA.
METHODS: We performed a single-center randomized controlled trial. Eligible 
patients were <65 years of age, working outside the home, and scheduled to 
undergo unicompartmental or total KA. The required sample size was 120 patients. 
Using GAS, patients developed personal activity goals with a physiotherapist 
preoperatively. These goals were used to monitor patients' goal attainment and 
provide goal-specific feedback during postoperative outpatient rehabilitation. 
Standard rehabilitation consisted of regular outpatient physiotherapy visits. 
The primary outcome measures were visual analogue scale (VAS) scores (scale of 0 
to 100) for satisfaction regarding activities of daily living and work and 
leisure-time activities 1 year postoperatively, which were analyzed using 
generalized estimating equation models.
RESULTS: Patient satisfaction with work activities was significantly higher in 
the GAS group (Î² = 10.7 points, 98% confidence interval [CI] = 2.0 to 19.4 
points) than in the control group. Patient satisfaction with activities of daily 
living and leisure-time activities did not differ between groups. We found no 
differences in VAS satisfaction scores between unicompartmental KA and total KA.
CONCLUSIONS: Personalized, goal-specific rehabilitation using GAS resulted in 
higher patient satisfaction with work activities, compared with standard 
rehabilitation, 1 year after KA.