Olverembatinib (HQP1351), a well-tolerated and effective tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor for patients with T315I-mutated chronic myeloid leukemia: results of 
an open-label, multicenter phase 1/2 trial.

1/BACKGROUND: BCR-ABL1T315I mutations confer resistance to tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs) in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Olverembatinib is a new 
potent BCR-ABL1 TKI with preclinical activity against T315I-mutated CML. In 
phase 1/2 studies, we explored the safety and efficacy of olverembatinib in 
Chinese adults with TKI-resistant CML in the chronic phase (CML-CP) and 
accelerated phase (CML-AP).

2/METHODS: In the phase 1 study, olverembatinib was orally administered once every 
other day in 28-day cycles at 11 dose cohorts ranging from 1 to 60 mg, and we 
evaluated the maximum tolerated dose, recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), safety, 
efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of olverembatinib. In the phase 2 studies, 
olverembatinib was administered at the RP2D of 40 mg orally on alternate days 
for 28-day cycles. The primary outcome measure is major cytogenetic response 
(MCyR) and major hematologic response by the end of Cycle 12 in CML-CP and 
CML-AP, respectively. Fine and Gray's hazard models were used to identify 
covariates associated with responses.

3/RESULTS: A total of 165 patients (> 80.0% of whom had received ≥ 2 TKIs) were 
enrolled in this study. Among 127 patients with CML-CP, the 3-year cumulative 
incidences of achieving MCyR, complete cytogenetic response (CCyR), major 
molecular response (MMR), MR4.0, and MR4.5 were 79.0, 69.0, 56.0, 44.0 and 
39.0%, respectively. The highest response rates were observed in patients with a 
single T315I mutation. Among 38 patients with CML-AP, the 3-year cumulative 
incidences of achieving MCyR, CCyR, MMR, MR4.0, and MR4.5 were 47.4%, 47.4%, 
44.7%, 39.3%, and 32.1%, respectively. In multivariate analyses, baseline 
BCR-ABL1 mutation status was significantly associated with cytogenetic and 
molecular responses. Common treatment-related adverse events included skin 
hyperpigmentation, hypertriglyceridemia, proteinuria, and severe 
thrombocytopenia.

4/CONCLUSIONS: Olverembatinib was well tolerated, with significant antileukemic 
activity in adults with TKI-resistant CML-CP and CML-AP, especially those with 
the T315I mutation.
