BACKGROUND: Against the background of missing culturally sensitive mental health 
care services for refugees, we developed a group intervention (Empowerment) for 
refugees at level 3 within the stratified Stepped and Collaborative Care Model 
of the project Mental Health in Refugees and Asylum Seekers (MEHIRA). We aim to 
evaluate the effectiveness of the Empowerment group intervention with its focus 
on psychoeducation, stress management, and emotion regulation strategies in a 
culturally sensitive context for refugees with affective disorders compared to 
treatment-as-usual (TAU).
METHOD: At level 3 of the MEHIRA project, 149 refugees and asylum seekers with 
clinically relevant depressive symptoms were randomized to the Empowerment group 
intervention or TAU. Treatment comprised 16 therapy sessions conducted over 
12 weeks. Effects were measured with the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) 
and the Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MÅDRS). Further scales 
included assessed emotional distress, self-efficacy, resilience, and quality of 
life.
RESULTS: Intention-to-treat analyses show significant cross-level interactions 
on both self-rated depressive symptoms (PHQ-9; F(1,147) = 13.32, p < 0.001) and 
clinician-rated depressive symptoms (MÅDRS; F(1,147) = 6.91, p = 0.01), 
indicating an improvement in depressive symptoms from baseline to 
post-intervention in the treatment group compared to the control group. The 
effect sizes for both scales were moderate (d = 0.68, 95% CI 0.21-1.15 for PHQ-9 
and d = 0.51, 95% CI 0.04-0.99 for MÅDRS).
CONCLUSION: In the MEHIRA project comparing an SCCM approach versus TAU, the 
Empowerment group intervention at level 3 showed effectiveness for refugees with 
moderately severe depressive symptoms.