BACKGROUND: Older patients with early-stage rectal cancer are under-represented 
in clinical trials and, therefore, little high-quality data are available to 
guide treatment in this patient population. The TREC trial was a randomised, 
open-label feasibility study conducted at 21 centres across the UK that compared 
organ preservation through short-course radiotherapy (SCRT; 25 Gy in five 
fractions) plus transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) with standard total 
mesorectal excision in adults with stage T1-2 rectal adenocarcinoma (maximum 
diameter â‰¤30 mm) and no lymph node involvement or metastasis. TREC incorporated 
a non-randomised registry offering organ preservation to patients who were 
considered unsuitable for total mesorectal excision by the local colorectal 
cancer multidisciplinary team. Organ preservation was achieved in 56 (92%) of 61 
non-randomised registry patients with local recurrence-free survival of 91% (95% 
CI 84-99) at 3 years. Here, we report acute and long-term patient-reported 
outcomes from this non-randomised registry group.
METHODS: Patients considered by the local colorectal cancer multidisciplinary 
team to be at high risk of complications from total mesorectal excision on the 
basis of frailty, comorbidities, and older age were included in a non-randomised 
registry to receive organ-preserving treatment. These patients were invited to 
complete questionnaires on patient-reported outcomes (the European Organisation 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life [EORTC-QLQ] questionnaire 
core module [QLQ-C30] and colorectal cancer module [QLQ-CR29], the Colorectal 
Functional Outcome [COREFO] questionnaire, and EuroQol-5 Dimensions-3 Level 
[EQ-5D-3L]) at baseline and at months 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 postoperatively. To 
aid interpretation, data from patients in the non-randomised registry were 
compared with data from those patients in the TREC trial who had been randomly 
assigned to organ-preserving therapy, and an additional reference cohort of 
aged-matched controls from the UK general population. This study is registered 
with the ISRCTN registry, ISRCTN14422743, and is closed.
FINDINGS: Between July 21, 2011, and July 15, 2015, 88 patients were enrolled 
onto the TREC study to undergo organ preservation, of whom 27 (31%) were 
randomly allocated to organ-preserving therapy and 61 (69%) were added to the 
non-randomised registry for organ-preserving therapy. Non-randomised patients 
were older than randomised patients (median age 74 years [IQR 67-80] vs 65 years 
[61-71]). Organ-preserving treatment was well tolerated among patients in the 
non-randomised registry, with mild worsening of fatigue; quality of life; 
physical, social, and role functioning; and bowel function 3 months 
postoperatively compared with baseline values. By 6-12 months, most scores had 
returned to baseline values, and were indistinguishable from data from the 
reference cohort. Only mild symptoms of faecal incontinence and urgency, 
equivalent to less than one episode per week, persisted at 36 months among 
patients in both groups.