Effects of Dexmedetomidine on Systemic Inflammation and Postoperative 
Complications in Laparoscopic Pancreaticoduodenectomy: A Double-blind Randomized 
Controlled Trial.

1/BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy (LPD) may induce intense 
inflammatory response which might be related to the patient's outcomes. Clinical 
dexmedetomidine (DEX) has been widely used for opioid-sparing anesthesia and 
satisfactory sedation. The objective of this study was to investigate the 
influence of DEX on inflammatory response and postoperative complications in 
LPD.

2/METHODS: Ninety-nine patients undergoing LPD were randomly assigned to two 
groups: normal saline (NS) and DEX. The primary outcome was the 
neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) differences postoperatively within 48 h. 
Secondary outcomes were postoperative complications, the length of postoperative 
hospital stay and the incidence of ICU admission. Other outcomes included 
anesthetics consumption and intraoperative vital signs.

3/RESULTS: NLR at postoperative day 2 to baseline ratio decreased significantly in 
the DEX group (P = 0.032). Less major complications were observed in the DEX 
group such as pancreatic fistula, delayed gastric emptying and intra-abdominal 
infection (NS vs. DEX, 21.7% vs. 13.6%, P = 0.315; 10.9% vs. 2.3%, P = 0.226; 
17.4% vs. 11.4%, P = 0.416, respectively) though there were no statistical 
differences. Three patients were transferred to the ICU after surgery in the NS 
group, while there was none in the DEX group (P = 0.242). The median 
postoperative hospital stay between groups were similar (P = 0.313). Both 
intraoperative propofol and opioids were less in the DEX group (P < 0.05).

4/CONCLUSIONS: Intraoperative DEX reduced the early postoperative inflammatory 
response in LPD. It also reduced the use of narcotics that may related to 
reduced major complications, which need additional research further.
