BACKGROUND: Unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, and social disconnection are 
important modifiable risk factors for non-communicable and other chronic 
diseases, which might be alleviated through nature-based community 
interventions. We tested whether a community gardening intervention could reduce 
these common health risks in an adult population that is diverse in terms of 
age, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status.
METHODS: In this observer-blind, randomised, controlled trial, we recruited 
individuals who were on Denver Urban Garden waiting lists for community gardens 
in Denver and Aurora (CO, USA), aged 18 years or older, and had not gardened in 
the past 2 years. Participants were randomly assigned (1:1), using a randomised 
block design in block sizes of two, four, or six, to receive a community garden 
plot (intervention group) or remain on a waiting list and not garden (control 
group). Researchers were masked to group allocation. Primary outcomes were diet, 
physical activity, and anthropometry; secondary outcomes were perceived stress 
and anxiety. During spring (April to early June, before randomisation; timepoint 
1 [T1]), autumn (late August to October; timepoint 2 [T2]), and winter (January 
to March, after the intervention; timepoint 3 [T3]), participants completed 
three diet recalls, 7-day accelerometry, surveys, and anthropometry. Analyses 
were done using the intention-to-treat principle (ie, including all participants 
randomly assigned to groups, and assessed as randomised). We used mixed models 
to test time-by-intervention hypotheses at an α level of 0·04, with T2 and T3 
intervention effects at an α level of 0·005 (99·5% CI). Due to potential effects 
of the COVID-19 pandemic on outcomes, we excluded all participant data collected 
after Feb 1, 2020. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, 
NCT03089177, and data collection is now complete.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 1, 2017, and June 15, 2019, 493 adults were screened and 
291 completed baseline measures and were randomly assigned to the intervention 
(n=145) or control (n=146) groups. Mean age was 41·5 years (SD 13·5), 238 (82%) 
of 291 participants were female, 52 (18%) were male, 99 (34%) identified as 
Hispanic, and 191 (66%) identified as non-Hispanic. 237 (81%) completed 
measurements before the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. One (<1%) 
participant in the intervention group had an adverse allergic event in the 
garden. Significant time-by-intervention effects were observed for fibre intake 
(p=0·034), with mean between-group difference (intervention minus control) at T2 
of 1·41 g per day (99·5% CI -2·09 to 4·92), and for moderate-to-vigorous 
physical activity (p=0·012), with mean between-group difference of 5·80 min per 
day (99·5% CI -4·44 to 16·05). We found no significant time-by-intervention 
interactions for combined fruit and vegetable intake, Healthy Eating Index 
(measured using Healthy Eating Index-2010), sedentary time, BMI, and waist 
circumference (all p>0·04). Difference score models showed greater reductions 
between T1 and T2 in perceived stress and anxiety among participants in the 
intervention group than among those in the control group.