Integrating metabolic expenditure information from wearable fitness sensors into 
an AI-augmented automated insulin delivery system: a randomised clinical trial.

1/BACKGROUND: Exercise can rapidly drop glucose in people with type 1 diabetes. 
Ubiquitous wearable fitness sensors are not integrated into automated insulin 
delivery (AID) systems. We hypothesised that an AID can automate insulin 
adjustments using real-time wearable fitness data to reduce hypoglycaemia during 
exercise and free-living conditions compared with an AID not automating use of 
fitness data.

2/METHODS: Our study population comprised of individuals (aged 21-50 years) with 
type 1 diabetes from from the Harold Schnitzer Diabetes Health Center clinic at 
Oregon Health and Science University, OR, USA, who were enrolled into a 76 h 
single-centre, two-arm randomised (4-block randomisation), non-blinded crossover 
study to use (1) an AID that detects exercise, prompts the user, and shuts off 
insulin during exercise using an exercise-aware adaptive proportional derivative 
(exAPD) algorithm or (2) an AID that automates insulin adjustments using fitness 
data in real-time through an exercise-aware model predictive control (exMPC) 
algorithm. Both algorithms ran on iPancreas comprising commercial glucose 
sensors, insulin pumps, and smartwatches. Participants executed 1 week run-in on 
usual therapy followed by exAPD or exMPC for one 12 h primary in-clinic session 
involving meals, exercise, and activities of daily living, and 2 free-living 
out-patient days. Primary outcome was time below range (<3·9 mmol/L) during the 
primary in-clinic session. Secondary outcome measures included mean glucose and 
time in range (3·9-10 mmol/L). This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, 
NCT04771403.

3/FINDINGS: Between April 13, 2021, and Oct 3, 2022, 27 participants (18 females) 
were enrolled into the study. There was no significant difference between exMPC 
(n=24) versus exAPD (n=22) in time below range (mean [SD] 1·3% [2·9] vs 2·5% 
[7·0]) or time in range (63·2% [23·9] vs 59·4% [23·1]) during the primary 
in-clinic session. In the 2 h period after start of in-clinic exercise, exMPC 
had significantly lower mean glucose (7·3 [1·6] vs 8·0 [1·7] mmol/L, p=0·023) 
and comparable time below range (1·4% [4·2] vs 4·9% [14·4]). Across the 76 h 
study, both algorithms achieved clinical time in range targets (71·2% [16] and 
75·5% [11]) and time below range (1·0% [1·2] and 1·3% [2·2]), significantly 
lower than run-in period (2·4% [2·4], p=0·0004 vs exMPC; p=0·012 vs exAPD). No 
adverse events occurred.

4/INTERPRETATION: AIDs can integrate exercise data from smartwatches to inform 
insulin dosing and limit hypoglycaemia while improving glucose outcomes. Future 
AID systems that integrate exercise metrics from wearable fitness sensors may 
help people living with type 1 diabetes exercise safely by limiting 
hypoglycaemia.

DOI: 10.1016/S2589-7500(23)00112-7
PMCID: PMC10557965
PMID: 37543512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests PGJ and JRC have a 
financial interest in Pacific Diabetes Technologies, a company that might have a 
commercial interest in the results of this research and technology. JRC also 
reports advisory board participation for Zealand Pharma, Novo Nordisk, Insulet, 
and AstraZeneca. PGJ reports advisory board participation for Eli Lilly. PGJ and 
JRC have received research funding at their institution from Dexcom. All other 
authors declare no competing interests.