BACKGROUND: Experimental evidence and studies of children and adolescents 
suggest that ambient fine particulate matter [particulate matter  ≤ 2.5 μm in 
aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5)] air pollution may be obesogenic, but the 
relationship between PM2.5 and the risk of body weight gain and obesity in 
adults is uncertain.
OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to characterize the association between PM2.5 and the 
risks of weight gain and obesity.
METHODS: We followed 3,902,440 U.S. Veterans from 2010 to 2018 (median 8.1 y, 
interquartile range: 7.3-8.4) and assigned time-updated PM2.5 exposures by 
linking geocoded residential street addresses with satellite-based estimates of 
surface-level PM2.5 mass (at  ∼ 1-km2 resolution). Associations with PM2.5 were 
estimated using Cox proportional hazards models for incident obesity [body mass 
index (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m2] and a 10-lb increase in weight relative to baseline and 
linear mixed models for associations with intra-individual changes in BMI and 
weight.
RESULTS: A 10-μg/m3 higher average annual PM2.5 concentration was associated 
with risk of incident obesity [n = 2,325,769; hazard ratio (HR) = 1.08 (95% CI: 
1.06, 1.11)] and the risk of a 10-lb (4.54 kg) increase in weight [HR = 1.07 
(95% CI: 1.06, 1.08)] and with higher intra-individual changes in BMI 
[0.140 kg/m2 per year (95% CI: 0.139, 0.142)] and weight [0.968 lb/y (95% CI: 
0.955, 0.981)]. Nonlinear exposure-response models indicated associations at 
PM2.5 concentrations below the national standard of 12 μg/m3. As expected, a 
negative exposure control (ambient air sodium) was not associated with obesity 
or weight gain. Associations were consistent in direction and magnitude across 
sensitivity analyses that included alternative outcomes and exposures assigned 
at different spatial resolutions.
DISCUSSION: PM2.5 air pollution was associated with the risk of obesity and 
weight gain in a large predominantly male cohort of U.S. Veterans. Discussions 
about health effects of PM2.5 should include its association with obesity, and 
deliberations about the epidemiology of obesity should consider its association 
with PM2.5. Investigation in other cohorts will deepen our understanding of the 
relationship between PM2.5 and weight gain and obesity.