AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: No established blood-based biomarker exists to monitor diabetic 
sensorimotor polyneuropathy (DSPN) and evaluate treatment response. The 
neurofilament light chain (NFL), a blood biomarker of neuroaxonal damage in 
several neurodegenerative diseases, represents a potential biomarker for DSPN. 
We hypothesised that higher serum NFL levels are associated with prevalent DSPN 
and nerve dysfunction in individuals recently diagnosed with diabetes.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study included 423 adults with type 1 and type 2 
diabetes and known diabetes duration of less than 1 year from the prospective 
observational German Diabetes Study cohort. NFL was measured in serum samples of 
fasting participants in a multiplex approach using proximity extension assay 
technology. DSPN was assessed by neurological examination, nerve conduction 
studies and quantitative sensory testing. Associations of serum NFL with DSPN 
(defined according to the Toronto Consensus criteria) were estimated using 
Poisson regression, while multivariable linear and quantile regression models 
were used to assess associations with nerve function measures. In exploratory 
analyses, other biomarkers in the multiplex panel were also analysed similarly 
to NFL.
RESULTS: DSPN was found in 16% of the study sample. Serum NFL levels increased 
with age. After adjustment for age, sex, waist circumference, height, HbA1c, 
known diabetes duration, diabetes type, cholesterol, eGFR, hypertension, CVD, 
use of lipid-lowering drugs and use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, 
higher serum NFL levels were associated with DSPN (RR [95% CI] per 1-normalised 
protein expression increase, 1.92 [1.50, 2.45], p<0.0001), slower motor (all 
p<0.0001) and sensory (all pâ‰¤0.03) nerve conduction velocities, lower sural 
sensory nerve action potential (p=0.0004) and higher thermal detection threshold 
to warm stimuli (p=0.023 and p=0.004 for hand and foot, respectively). There was 
no evidence for associations between other neurological biomarkers and DSPN or 
nerve function measures.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Our findings in individuals recently diagnosed with 
diabetes provide new evidence associating higher serum NFL levels with DSPN and 
peripheral nerve dysfunction. The present study advocates NFL as a potential 
biomarker for DSPN.