Neuropathic cancer pain (NcP) is associated with worse treatment responses and 
specific therapy indications, but a standardized clinical diagnosis of NcP is 
still lacking. This is a prospective observational study on outpatients with 
cancer, comparing different clinical approaches with NcP evaluation. A 
three-step assessment of NcP was performed using DN4 (cutoff of 4), palliative 
care physician Clinical Impression, including etiology and pain syndrome 
identification, and Retrospective Clinical Classification by a board of 
specialists with the IASP Neuropathic Pain Special Interest Group criteria. 
Neuropathic cancer pain classification was specifically referred to pain 
directly due to cancer. Three hundred fifty patients were assessed, and NcP 
prevalence was 20% (95% confidence interval [CI] 15.9%-24.6%), 36.9%, (95% CI 
31.6%-42.1%), and 28.6% (95% CI 23.8%-33.9%) according to DN4, Clinical 
Impression, and Retrospective Clinical Classification, respectively. Cohen's 
kappa concordance coefficient between DN4 and Retrospective Clinical 
Classification was 0.57 (95% CI 0.47-0.67), indicating moderate concordance. 
Higher percentages of discordance were found for specific pain syndromes such as 
pain due to deep soft tissue infiltration and pain associated with tenesmus. 
Disagreement among clinicians accounted also for different NcP diagnoses and 
highlighted lack of homogeneous clinical criteria. Rigorous application of 
etiological and syndrome diagnosis to explain pain cause, associated with 
standardized diagnostic criteria and assessment of pain characteristics, that is 
also specific for the cancer pain condition could improve clinical 
classification of NcP.